<beginning of page>
autopush <-> configures lists of automatically pushed STREAMS modules
autopush -f filename
autopush -g -M major -m minor
autopush -r -M major -m minor
The autopush command configures the list of modules to be automatically pushed onto the stream when a device is
opened. It can also be used to remove a previous setting or get information on a setting.
The following options are supported:
-f filename
Sets up the autopush configuration for each driver according to the information stored in filename. An autopush file
consists of lines of four or more fields, separated by spaces as shown below:
 major minor last-minor module1 module2 ... module8
The first field is a string that specifies the major device name, as listed in the /kernel/drv directory. The next two
fields are integers that specify the minor device number and last-minor device number. The fields following repre<hy>
sent the names of modules. If minor is <mi>1, then all minor devices of a major driver specified by major are config<hy>
ured, and the value for last-minor is ignored. If last-minor is 0, then only a single minor device is configured. To
configure a range of minor devices for a particular major, minor must be less than last-minor.
The remaining fields list the names of modules to be automatically pushed onto the stream when opened, along with
the position of an optional anchor. The maximum number of modules that can be pushed is eight. The modules are
pushed in the order they are specified. The optional special character sequence [anchor] indicates that a STREAMS
anchor should be placed on the stream at the module previously specified in the list; it is an error to specify more
than one anchor or to have an anchor first in the list.
A nonzero exit status indicates that one or more of the lines in the specified file failed to complete successfully.
-g
Gets the current configuration setting of a particular major and minor device number specified with the -M and -m
options respectively and displays the autopush modules associated with it. It will also return the starting minor de<hy>
vice number if the request corresponds to a setting of a range (as described with the -f option).
-m minor
Specifies the minor device number.
-M major
Specifies the major device number.
-r
Removes the previous configuration setting of the particular major and minor device number specified with the -M
and -m options respectively. If the values of major and minor correspond to a previously established setting of a
range of minor devices, where minor matches the first minor device number in the range, the configuration would be
removed for the entire range.
The following exit values are returned:
0
Successful completion.
<beginning of page>
non-zero
An error occurred.
Example 1 Using the autopush command.
The following example gets the current configuration settings for the major and minor device numbers as indicated
and displays the autopush modules associated with them for the character-special device /dev/term/a:
 example# autopush -g -M 29 -m 0
 Major Minor Lastminor Modules
  29 0 1 ldterm ttcompat
/etc/iu.ap
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
dladm(1M), ttymon(1M), attributes(5), ldterm(7M), sad(7D), streamio(7I), ttcompat(7M)

The use of the autopush command is obsolete for networking data-links. The preferred method of configuring a list
of automatically pushed STREAMS modules on a given networking data-link interface is the dladm(1M) autopush
link property.
Because network devices are self-cloning, the autopush command is inadequate for networking devices. The granu<hy>
larity of the autopush command's configuration is driver-wide, and not per-interface as one might expect. Another
reason not to use autopush is that administrators are more familiar with the names of their network interfaces than
with device major and minor numbers. The dladm(1M) command allows the configuration using data-link interface
names.
