<beginning of page>
depend <-> software dependencies file
depend is an ASCII file used to specify information concerning software dependencies for a particular package. The
file is created by a software developer.
Each entry in the depend file describes a single software package. The instance of the package is described after the
entry line by giving the package architecture and/or version. The format of each entry and subsequent instance defi<hy>
nition is:
 type pkg name
  (arch)version
   (arch)version
  ...
The fields are:
type Defines the dependency type. Must be one of the following characters:
P Indicates a prerequisite for installation; for example, the referenced package or versions must be installed.
I Implies that the existence of the indicated package or version is incompatible.
R Indicates a reverse dependency. Instead of defining the package's own dependencies, this designates that another
package depends on this one. This type should be used only when an old package does not have a depend file, but
relies on the newer package nonetheless. Therefore, the present package should not be removed if the designated old
package is still on the system since, if it is removed, the old package will no longer work.
pkg Indicates the package abbreviation.
name Specifies the full package name.
(arch)version Specifies a particular instance of the software. A version name cannot begin with a left parenthesis.
The instance specifications, both (arch) and version, are completely optional, but each (arch)version pair must begin
on a new line that begins with white space. A null version set equates to any version of the indicated package.
Example 1 Sample of depend file
Here are the contents of a sample depend file, for the SUNWftpr (FTP Server) package, stored in
/var/sadm/pkg/SUNWftpr/install:
 P SUNWcar Core Architecture, (Root)
 P SUNWkvm Core Architecture, (Kvm)
 P SUNWcsr Core Solaris, (Root)
 P SUNWcsu Core Solaris, (Usr)
 P SUNWcsd Core Solaris Devices
 P SUNWcsl Core Solaris Libraries
 R SUNWftpu FTP Server, (Usr)
pkginfo(4)
Application Packaging Developer's Guide
