<beginning of page>
dnssec-signkey <-> DNSSEC key set signing tool
dnssec-signkey [-ahp] [-c class] [-e end-time]
 [-r randomdev] [-s start-time] [-v level] keyset key...
The dnssec-signkey utility signs a keyset. Typically the keyset will be for a child zone and will have been generated
by dnssec-makekeyset(1M). The child zone's keyset is signed with the zone keys for its parent zone. The output file
is of the form signedkey-nnnn., where nnnn is the zone name.
The following options are supported:
-a Verify all generated signatures.
-c class Specify the DNS class of the key sets.
-e end-time Specify the date and time when the generated SIG records expire. As with start-time, an absolute time is
indicated in YYYYMMDDHHMMSS notation. A time relative to the start time is indicated with +N, which is N
seconds from the start time. A time relative to the current time is indicated with now+N. If no end-time is specified,
30 days from the start time is used as a default.
-h Prints a short summary of the options and arguments to dnssec-signkey().
-p Use pseudo-random data when signing the zone. This is faster, but less secure, than using real random data. This
option may be useful when signing large zones or when the entropy source is limited.
-r randomdev Specify the source of randomness. If the operating system does not provide a /dev/random or equiv<hy>
alent device, the default source of randomness is keyboard input. randomdev specifies the name of a character device
or file containing random data to be used instead of the default. The special value keyboard indicates that keyboard
input should be used.
-s start-time Specify the date and time when the generated SIG records become valid. This can be either an absolute
or relative time. An absolute start time is indicated by a number in YYYYMMDDHHMMSS notation;
20000530144500 denotes 14:45:00 UTC on May 30th, 2000. A relative start time is indicated by +N, which is N
seconds from the current time. If no start-time is specified, the current time is used.
-v level Set the debugging level.
The following operands are supported:
key The keys used to sign the child's keyset.
keyset The file containing the child's keyset.
Example 1 Sign the keyset file for example.com.
The DNS administrator for a DNSSEC-aware .com zone would use the following command to sign the keyset file
for example.com created by dnssec-makekeyset with a key generated by dnssec-keygen:
 dnssec-signkey keyset-example.com. Kcom.+003+51944
In this example, dnssec-signkey creates the file signedkey-example.com, which contains the example.com keys
and the signatures by the .com keys.
<beginning of page>
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wbind9 Interface StabilityExternal
dnssec-keygen(1M), dnssec-makekeyset(1M), dnssec-signzone(1M), attributes(5)
Source for BIND9 is available in the SUNWbind9S package.
