<beginning of page>
eject <-> eject media such as CD-ROM and floppy from drive
eject [-dflqt] [ [device | nickname]]
The eject utility is used for those removable media devices that do not have a manual eject button, or for those that
might be locked due to, for instance, being mounted. The device may be specified by its name or by a nickname. If
no device is specified, the default device is used.
Only devices that support eject under program control respond to this command.
When eject is used on media that can only be ejected manually, it does everything except remove the media, includ<hy>
ing unmounting the file system if it is mounted. In this case, eject displays a message that the media can now be
manually ejected.
Do not physically eject media from a device that contains mounted file systems. eject automatically searches for any
mounted file systems that reside on the device, and attempts to umount them prior to ejecting the media. See
mount(1M). If the unmount operation fails, eject prints a warning message and exits. The -f option can be used to
specify an eject even if the device contains mounted partitions.
If you have inserted a floppy diskette, you might need to use volcheck(1) before ejecting the media to inform the
system the floppy's presence.
Pressing the physical media eject button located on some drives' front panel has the same effect as invoking eject for
the respective drive. Not all drives have this capability.
The following options are supported:
-d Display the name of the default device to be ejected.
-f Force the device to eject even if it is busy.
-l Display paths and nicknames of ejectable devices.
-q Query to see if the media is present.
-t Issues the drive a CD-ROM tray close command.
Not all devices support this command.
The following operands are supported:
device Specifies which device to eject, by the name it appears in the directory /dev.
nickname Specifies which device to eject, by its nickname as known to this command.
Volume label or device type (for example, cdrom or floppy0) can be used as a nickname.
Example 1 Ejecting Media
The following example ejects media by its volume label:
 example> eject 'My Pictures'
Example 2 Ejecting a Floppy Disk
The following example ejects a floppy disk from the first floppy drive:
<beginning of page>
 example> eject floppy0
The following exit codes are returned:
0 The operation was successful or, with the -q option, the media is in the drive.
1 The operation was unsuccessful or, with the -q option, the media is not in the drive.
2 Invalid options were specified.
3 An ioctl() request failed.
4 Manually ejectable media is now okay to remove.
/dev/diskette0 default diskette file
/dev/sr0 default CD-ROM file (deprecated)
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
volcheck(1), mount(1M), rmmount(1M), ioctl(2), attributes(5)
