<beginning of page>
fmstat <-> report fault management module statistics
fmstat [-astTz] [-d u | d ] [-m module] [interval [count]]
The fmstat utility can be used by administrators and service personnel to report statistics associated with the Solaris
Fault Manager, fmd(1M) and its associated set of modules. The Fault Manager runs in the background on each So<hy>
laris system. It receives telemetry information relating to problems detected by the system software, diagnoses these
problems, and initiates proactive self-healing activities such as disabling faulty components.
You can use fmstat to view statistics for diagnosis engines and agents that are currently participating in fault man<hy>
agement. The documentation for fmd(1M), fmadm(1M), and fmdump(1M) describes more about tools to observe
fault management activities.
If the -m option is present or the -t option is present, fmstat reports any statistics kept by the specified fault manage<hy>
ment module. The module list can be obtained using fmadm config.
If the -m option is not present, fmstat reports the following statistics for each of its client modules:
module The name of the fault management module, as reported by fmadm config.
ev_recv The number of telemetry events received by the module.
ev_acpt The number of events accepted by the module as relevant to a diagnosis.
wait The average number of telemetry events waiting to be examined by the module.
svc_t The average service time for telemetry events received by the module, in milliseconds.
%w The percentage of time that there were telemetry events waiting to be examined by the module.
%b The percentage of time that the module was busy processing telemetry events.
open The number of active cases (open problem investigations) owned by the module.
solve The total number of cases solved by this module since it was loaded.
memsz The amount of dynamic memory currently allocated by this module.
bufsz The amount of persistent buffer space currently allocated by this module.
The fmstat utility requires the user to posses the SYS_CONFIG privilege. Refer to the for more information about
how to configure Solaris privileges.
The following options are supported:
-a Print all statistics for a module, including those kept on its behalf by fmd. If the -a option is not present, only
those statistics kept by the module are reported. If the -a option is used without the -m module, a set of global statis<hy>
tics associated with fmd are displayed.
-d u | d Display a time stamp.
Specify u for a printed representation of the internal representation of time. See time(2). Specify d for standard date
format. See date(1).
<beginning of page>
-m module Print a report on the statistics associated with the specified fault management module, instead of the de<hy>
fault statistics report. Modules can publish an arbitrary set of statistics to help Sun service the fault management
software itself. The module statistics constitute a Private interface. See attributes(5) for information on Sun's rules
for Private interfaces. Scripts should not be written that depend upon the values of fault management module statis<hy>
tics as they can change without notice.
-s Print a report on Soft Error Rate Discrimination (SERD) engines associated with the module instead of the default
module statistics report. A SERD engine is a construct used by fault management software to determine if a statisti<hy>
cal threshold measured as N events in some time T has been exceeded. The -s option can only be used in combina<hy>
tion with the -m option.
-t Print a report on the statistics associated with each fault management event transport. Each fault management
module can provide the implementation of one or more event transports.
-T Print a table of the authority information associated with each fault management event transport. If the -m option
is present, only transports associated with the specified module are displayed.
-z Omit statistics with a zero value from the report associated with the specified fault management module. The -z
option can only be used in combination with the -m option.
The following operands are supported:
count Print only count reports, and then exit.
interval Print a new report every interval seconds.
If no interval and no count are specified, a single report is printed and fmstat exits. If an interval is specified but no
count is specified, fmstat prints reports every interval seconds indefinitely until the command is interrupted.
The following exit values are returned:
0 Successful completion.
1 A fatal error occurred. A fatal error could be the failure to communicate with fmd(1M). It could also be that insuf<hy>
ficient privileges were available to perform the requested operation.
2 Invalid command-line options were specified.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wfmd _ Interface StabilitySee below.
The command-line options are Evolving. The human-readable default report is Unstable. The human-readable mod<hy>
ule report is Private.
fmadm(1M), fmd(1M), fmdump(1M), attributes(5)

