<beginning of page>
format <-> disk partitioning and maintenance utility
format [-f command-file] [-l log-file] [-x data-file]
 [-d disk-name] [-t disk-type] [-p partition-name]
 [-s] [-m] [-M] [-e] [disk-list]
format enables you to format, label, repair, and analyze disks on your system. Unlike previous disk maintenance
programs, format runs under SunOS. Because there are limitations to what can be done to the system disk while the
system is running, format is also supported within the memory-resident system environment. For most applications,
however, running format under SunOS is the more convenient approach.
format first uses the disk list defined in data-file if the -x option is used. format then checks for the FOR<hy>
MAT_PATH environment variable, a colon-separated list of filenames and/or directories. In the case of a directory,
format searches for a file named format.dat in that directory; a filename should be an absolute pathname, and is
used without change. format adds all disk and partition definitions in each specified file to the working set. Multiple
identical definitions are silently ignored. If FORMAT_PATH is not set, the path defaults to /etc/format.dat.
disk-list is a list of disks in the form c?t?d? or /dev/rdsk/c?t?d?s?. With the latter form, shell wildcard specifica<hy>
tions are supported. For example, specifying /dev/rdsk/c2* causes format to work on all drives connected to con<hy>
troller c2 only. If no disk-list is specified, format lists all the disks present in the system that can be administered by
format.
Removable media devices are listed only when users execute format in expert mode (option -e). This feature is pro<hy>
vided for backward compatibility. Use rmformat(1) for rewritable removable media devices.
The following options are supported:
-d disk-name Specify which disk should be made current upon entry into the program. The disk is specified by its
logical name (for instance, -d c0t1d0). This can also be accomplished by specifying a single disk in the disk list.
-e Enable SCSI expert menu. Note this option is not recommended for casual use.
-f command-file Take command input from command-file rather than the standard input. The file must contain com<hy>
mands that appear just as they would if they had been entered from the keyboard. With this option, format does not
issue continue? prompts; there is no need to specify y(es) or n(o) answers in the command-file. In non-interactive
mode, format does not initially expect the input of a disk selection number. The user must specify the current work<hy>
ing disk with the -d disk-name option when format is invoked, or specify disk and the disk selection number in the
command-file.
-l log-file Log a transcript of the format session to the indicated log-file, including the standard input, the standard
output and the standard error.
-m Enable extended messages. Provides more detailed information in the event of an error.
-M Enable extended and diagnostic messages. Provides extensive information on the state of a SCSI device's mode
pages, during formatting.
-p partition-name Specify the partition table for the disk which is current upon entry into the program. The table is
specified by its name as defined in the data file. This option can be used only if a disk is being made current, and its
type is either specified or available from the disk label.
-s Silent. Suppress all of the standard output. Error messages are still displayed. This is generally used in conjunc<hy>
tion with the -f option.
-t disk-type Specify the type of disk which is current upon entry into the program. A disk's type is specified by name
in the data file. This option can only be used if a disk is being made current as described above.
<beginning of page>
-x data-file Use the list of disks contained in data-file.
When you invoke format with no options or with the -e, -l, -m, -M, or -s options, the program displays a numbered
list of available disks and prompts you to specify a disk by list number. If the machine has more than 10 disks, press
SPACE to see the next screenful of disks.
You can specify a disk by list number even if the disk is not displayed in the current screenful. For example, if the
current screen shows disks 11-20, you can enter 25 to specify the twenty-fifth disk on the list. If you enter a number
for a disk that is not currently displayed, format prompts you to verify your selection. If you enter a number from
the displayed list, format silently accepts your selection.
After you specify a disk, format displays its main menu. This menu enables you to perform the following tasks:
analyze Run read, write, compare tests, and data purge. The data purge function implements the National Computer
Security Center Guide to Understanding Data Remnance (NCSC-TG-025 version 2) Overwriting Algorithm. See
NOTES.
backup Search for backup labels.
cache Enable, disable, and query the state of the write cache and read cache. This menu item only appears when for<hy>
mat is invoked with the -e option, and is only supported on SCSI devices..
current Display the device name, the disk geometry, and the pathname to the disk device.
defect Retrieve and print defect lists. This option is supported only on SCSI devices. IDE disks perform automatic
defect management. Upon using the defect option on an IDE disk, you receive the message:
 Controller does not support defect management
 or disk supports automatic defect management.
disk Choose the disk that will be used in subsequent operations (known as the current disk.)
fdisk Run the fdisk(1M) program to create a fdisk partition for Solaris software (x86 based systems only).
format Format and verify the current disk. This option is supported only on SCSI devices. IDE disks are pre-for<hy>
matted by the manufacturer. Upon using the format option on an IDE disk, you receive the message:
 Cannot format this drive. Please use your
 manufacturer-supplied formatting utility.
inquiry Display the vendor, product name, and revision level of the current drive.
label Write a new label to the current disk.
partition Create and modify slices.
quit Exit the format menu.
<beginning of page>
repair Repair a specific block on the disk.
save Save new disk and slice information.
type Select (define) a disk type.
verify Read and display labels. Print information such as the number of cylinders, alternate cylinders, heads, sectors,
and the partition table.
volname Label the disk with a new eight character volume name.
FORMAT_PATH a colon-separated list of filenames and/or directories of disk and partition definitions. If a directo<hy>
ry is specified, format searches for the file format.dat in that directory.
/etc/format.dat default data file
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
fmthard(1M), prtvtoc(1M), rmformat(1), format.dat(4), attributes(5), sd(7D)

fdisk(1M)
When the format function is selected to format the Maxtor 207MB disk, the following message displays:
 Mode sense page(4) reports rpm value as 0, adjusting it to 3600
This is a drive bug that may also occur with older third party drives. The above message is not an error; the drive
will still function correctly.
Cylinder 0 contains the partition table (disk label), which can be overwritten if used in a raw disk partition by third
party software.
format supports writing EFI-compliant disk labels in order to support disks or LUNs with capacities greater than
one terabyte. However, care should be exercised since many software components, such as filesystems and volume
managers, are still restricted to capacities of one terabyte or less. See the System Administration Guide: Basic Ad<hy>
ministration for additional information.
By default, on an unlabeled disk, EFI labels will be written on disks larger than 2 TB. When format is invoked with
the -e option, on writing the label, the label type can be chosen. Booting is not currently supported on a disk with an
EFI label.
format provides a help facility you can use whenever format is expecting input. You can request help about what in<hy>
formation is expected by simply entering a question mark (?) and format prints a brief description of what type of
input is needed. If you enter a ? at the menu prompt, a list of available commands is displayed.
For SCSI disks, formatting is done with both Primary and Grown defects list by default. However, if only Primary
list is extracted in defect menu before formatting, formatting will be done with Primary list only.
Changing the state of the caches is only supported on SCSI devices, and not all SCSI devices support changing or
<beginning of page>
saving the state of the caches.
The NCSC-TG-025 algorithm for overwriting meets the DoD 5200.28-M (ADP Security Manual) Eraser Proce<hy>
dures specification. The NIST Guidelines for Media Sanitization (NIST SP 800-88) also reference this algorithm.
