<beginning of page>
getdgrp <-> lists device groups which contain devices that match criteria
/usr/sbin/getdgrp [-ael] [criteria]... [dgroup]...
getdgrp generates a list of device groups that contain devices matching the given criteria. The criteria is given in the
form of expressions.
The following options are supported:
-a Specifies that a device must match all criteria to be included in the list generated by this command. The option
has no effect if no criteria are defined.
-e Specifies that the list of device groups on the command line should be excluded from the list generated by this
command. Without the -e option the named device groups are included in the generated list. The flag has no effect
if no devices are defined.
-l Specifies that all device groups (subject to the -e option and the dgroup list) should be listed even if they contain
no valid device members. This option has no affect if criteria is specified on the command line.
The following operands are supported:
criteria Defines criteria that a device must match before a device group to which it belongs can be included in the
generated list. Specify criteria as an expression or a list of expressions which a device must meet for its group to be
included in the list generated by getdgrp. If no criteria are given, all device groups are included in the list.
Devices must satisfy at least one of the criteria in the list. However, the -a option can be used to define that a "logi<hy>
cal and" operation should be performed. Then, only those groups containing devices which match all of the criteria
in a list will be included.
There are four possible expressions types which the criteria specified in the criteria argument may follow:
attribute=value Selects all device groups with a member whose attribute attribute is defined and is equal to value.
attribute!=value Selects all device groups with a member whose attribute attribute is defined and does not equal
value.
attribute:* Selects all device groups with a member which has the attribute attribute defined.
attribute!:* Selects all device groups with a member which does not have the attribute attribute defined.
See putdev(1M) for a complete listing and description of available attributes.
dgroup Defines a set of device groups which should be included in or excluded from the generated list. Device
groups that are defined and which contain devices matching the criteria are included.
If the -e option is used, this list defines a set of device groups to be excluded. When the -e option is used and crite<hy>
ria is also defined, the generated list will include device groups containing devices which match the criteria and are
not in the command line list.
The following exit values are returned:
0 Successful completion of the task.
1 Command syntax was incorrect, invalid option was used, or an internal error occurred.
<beginning of page>
2 Device table or device group table could not be opened for reading.
/etc/device.tab
/etc/dgroup.tab
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
devattr(1M), getdev(1M), putdev(1M), putdgrp(1M), attributes(5)
