<beginning of page>
ipqos <-> IP Quality of Service
ipqos is an implementation of the Differentiated Services model defined in RFC2475: An Architecture for Differenti<hy>
ated Services, which defines the following entities: multi-field classifier, meter, marker, and dropper. The Solaris im<hy>
plementation of ipqos adds a flow accounting entity.
These entities can be combined into processing paths that constitute a series of actions that are performed on groups
of flows. The classifier groups together flows and directs them in a given processing path. Classifier configuration
and path construction are achieved using the ipqosconf(1M) command.
A summary of the ipqos entities follows. For more information, refer to the corresponding man page for each entity.
ipgpc An implementation of the classifier defined in the model. ipgpc has been extended and is able to select traffic
based on IP header parameters, user id, project id, interface name, interface group and direction.
tokenmt, tswtclmt These modules implement different metering algorithms. tokenmt implements both RFC2697:
A Single Rate Three Color Marker and RFC 2698: A Two Rate Three Color Marker. tswtclmt implements
RFC2859: A Time Sliding Window Three Color Marker. These modules only implement the metering functions de<hy>
fined in the RFCs.
dlcosmk A marker entity that allows the setting of the user priority field of Ethernet frames as defined in the IEEE
802.1D specification. dlcosmk is only available with VLAN capable network interfaces.
dscpmk A marker entity that enables the setting of the Differentiated Services Code Point Value in the IP header as
defined in RFC 2474: Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 headers.
flowacct An accounting module that utilizes the Solaris extended accounting facility. flowacct logs all flows with
parameters used to build a charge back mechanism.
ipqos modules export statistics through the kstat facility. Exported statistics contain the following common parame<hy>
ters:
module module name
instance dynamic parameter identifying a specific instance
name a string for global statistics (for example, ipgpc global stat) or a class name for per-class statistics for a classi<hy>
fier action
To verify classifier configuration, generate traffic for each of the configured classes and check that the statistic coun<hy>
ters for the expected class are increased. If you're unsure about the parameters for your traffic, you can use
snoop(1M) to determine them.
Some actions have the instance id of the next configured action in their statistics. This instance id can be used to fol<hy>
low the action processing path. Instance id's -1 and -2 are the built-in actions continue and drop, respectively.
Examples:
To retrieve all statistics for ipgpc:
 kstat -m ipgpc
To retrieve statistics for the class http:
 kstat -m ipgpc -c http
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
<beginning of page>
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wqos (32-bit) SUNWqosx (64-bit)
ipqosconf(1M), dlcosmk(7ipp), dscpmk(7ipp), flowacct(7ipp), ipgpc(7ipp), tokenmt(7ipp), tswtclmt(7ipp)
RFC 2475, An Architecture for Differentiated Services S. Blake, D. Black, M. Carlson, E. Davies, Z. Wang, W.
Weiss <em> The Internet Society, 1998
RFC 2474, Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers K. Nichols, S.
Blake, F. Baker, D. Black <em> The Internet Society, 1998
RFC 2697, A Single Rate Three Color Marker J. Heinanen, R. Guerin <em> The Internet Society, 1999
RFC 2698, A Two Rate Three Color Marker J. Heinanen, R. Guerin <em> The Internet Society, 1999
RFC 2859, A Time Sliding Window Three Colour Marker (TSWTCM) W. Fang, N. Seddigh, B. Nandy <em> The Inter<hy>
net Society, 2000
