<beginning of page>
isnsadm <-> administer the internet Storage Name Server (iSNS) server
isnsadm options
isnsadm subcommand [subcommand_options] [operand]
The isnsadm command is the command-line interface to the Internet Storage Name Service (iSNS) server. isnsadm
comprises a set of subcommands, described in their own section, each of which accomplishes one of the iSNS server
management functions.
For any operations that will change the iSNS configurations the solaris.isnsmgr.write authorization is required. Re<hy>
fer to isns(1M). For read operations, the command does not require special authorizations.
isnsadm has a set of general options and a set of subcommand-specific options. The first category is described under
OPTIONS; the second category is described in the context of each subcommand description.
The following options are supported:
-?, --help
Displays context help. Stops interpretation of any subsequent arguments.
-V, --version
Displays version information. Stops interpretation of any subsequent arguments.
The following operands are used by one or more isnsadm subcommands.
iscsi-node-name
iSCSI target or iSCSI initiator symbolic name. A string with a maximum length of 223 characters.
discovery-domain-name
Discovery domain symbolic name. A string with a maximum length of 256 characters.
discovery-domain-set-name
Discovery domain set symbolic name. A string with a maximum length of 256 characters.
The isnsadm command supports the subcommands described below.
The add-dd subcommand adds a discovery domain to a discovery domain set.
The add-dd subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm add-dd option discovery-domain-name, ...
add-dd has the following option:
-s discovery-domain-set-name
Specifies a discovery domain set.
The add-node subcommand adds a node to a specified discovery-domain.
The add-node subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm add-node option iscsi-node-name,...
<beginning of page>
add-node has the following options:
-d,--dd discovery-domain-name
Specifies a discovery domain.
The create-dd subcommand creates a discovery domain with the name you specify.
The create-dd subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm create-dd discovery-domain-name, ...
create-dd has no options.
The create-dd-set subcommand creates a discovery domain set with the name you specify.
The create-dd-set subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm create-dd-set discovery-domain-set-name, ...
create-dd-set has no options.
The delete-dd subcommand deletes a discovery domain of the name you specify.
The delete-dd subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm delete-dd discovery-domain-name, ...
delete-dd has no options.
The delete-dd-set subcommand deletes a discovery domain set of the name you specify.
The delete-dd-set subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm delete-dd-set discovery-domain-set-name, ...
delete-dd-set has no options.
The disable-dd-set subcommand disables a discovery domain set.
The disable-dd-set subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm disable-dd-set discovery-domain-set-name, ...
disable-dd-set has no options.
The enable-dd-set subcommand enables a discovery domain set.
The enable-dd-set subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm enable-dd-set discovery-domain-set-name, ...
enable-dd-set has no options.
<beginning of page>
The list-dd subcommand displays information about discovery domains. If no operand is specified, it lists all discov<hy>
ery domains that currently exist on the iSNS server.
The list-dd subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm list-dd [option] [discovery-domain-name, ...]
list-dd supports the following option:
-v, --verbose
Displays the member contents of the discovery domain(s).
The list-dd-set subcommand lists the discovery domain sets, both enabled and disabled, that exist on the iSNS serv<hy>
er. Note that there is no dd-set registration. If no operand is specified, it lists all of the discovery domain sets.
The list-dd-set subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm list-dd-set [option] [discovery-domain-set-name, ...]
list-dd-set supports the following option:
-v, --verbose
Shows all discovery domains within the discovery domain set.
The list-node subcommand displays information about nodes that are currently registered with the iSNS server or
that are not registered and belong to non-default discovery-domain(s). For the latter case, the node has its type field
shown as unknown. If no operand is specified, list-node lists all nodes known by the iSNS server.
The list-node subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm list-node [options] [iscsi-node-name, ...]
list-node supports the following options:
-t, --target
Filters the list to display only iSCSI target nodes.
-i, --initiator
Filters the list to display only iSCSI initiator nodes.
-v, --verbose
Displays details about a node. Without this option, only the name, alias, and type information are displayed.
The modify-dd subcommand modifies an attribute of a specified discovery domain.
The modify-dd subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm modify-dd option discovery-domain-name
<beginning of page>
modify-dd has the following option:
-n discovery-domain-name
Specifies the new name of a discovery domain to be applied to an existing discovery-domain.
The modify-dd-set subcommand modifies a discovery domain set.
The modify-dd-set subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm modify-dd-set option discovery-domain-set-name
modify-dd-set has the following option:
-n discovery-domain-set-name
Specifies the new name of a discovery domain set to be applied to an existing discovery-domain-set.
The remove-dd subcommand removes the association with a specified discovery domain set.
The remove-dd subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm remove-dd option discovery-domain-name, ...
remove-dd has the following option:
-s discovery-domain-set-name
Specifies the discovery domain set from which the discovery domain will  be removed.
The remove-node subcommand removes a node.
The remove-node subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm remove-node option iscsi-node-name, ...
remove-node has the following option:
-d discovery-domain-name
Specifies the discovery domain from which a node will be removed.
The show-config subcommand displays the iSNS server administrative settings. Note that the setting can be modi<hy>
fied by means of the service management facility (see smf(5)). Refer to isns(1M).
The show-config subcommand has the following syntax:
 # isnsadm show-config
show-config has no options. Example 1 Displaying Clients
The following use of the list-node subcommand displays clients.
 # isnsadm list-node -v
 iSCSI Name: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:000e0c9f10da.45173FEA.engr
<beginning of page>
  Alias: STK5320_NAS
  Type: Target
  Network Entity: SE5310
  Portal: 172.20.57.95:3260
  Portal Group: 1
  Portal: 172.20.56.95:3260
  Portal Group: 1
  DD Name: Default
 iSCSI Name: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:000e0c9f10da.454F00A2.acct
  Alias:
  Type: Target
  Network Entity: SE5310
  Portal: 172.20.57.95:3260
  Portal Group: 1
  Portal: 172.20.56.95:3260
  Portal Group: 1
  DD Name: Default
 iSCSI Name: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:e00000000000.46fd8e2b
  Alias: host-x2100
  Type: Initiator
  Network Entity: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:e00000000000.46fd8e2b
  Portal: 172.20.236.123:58530
  Portal Group: 1
  DD Name: Default
Example 2 Displaying a Discovery Domain
The following use of the list-dd subcommand displays discovery domains.
 # isnsadm list-dd -v
 DD name: Default
  DD set(s): Default
  iSCSI Name: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:000e0c9f10da.45173FEA.engr
  iSCSI Name: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:000e0c9f10da.454F00A2.acct
  iSCSI name: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:e00000000000.46fd8e2b
 DD name: acct-dd
 DD name: engineering-dd
Example 3 Adding a Node
The following use of the add-node subcommand adds a node to a discovery domain, creating a discovery domain
membership.
 # isnsadm add-node -d engineering-dd \
 iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:000e0c9f10da.454F00A2.engr
Example 4 Removing a Node
The following use of the remove-node subcommand removes a node from a discovery domain, thereby removing a
discovery domain membership.
 # isnsadm remove-node -d acct-dd \
 iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:000e0c9f10da.454F00A2.acct
Example 5 Creating a Discovery Domain Set
The following use of the create-dd-set subcommand creates a discovery domain set.
<beginning of page>
 # isnsadm create-dd-set operation-dd-set
Example 6 Displaying a Discovery Domain Set
The following use of the list-dd-set subcommand displays discovery domain sets.
 # isnsadm list-dd-set -v
 DD Set name: Default
  State: Disabled
  DD Name: Default
 DD Set name: operation-dd-set
  State: Disabled
Example 7 Adding a Discovery Domain
The following use of the add-dd subcommand adds a discovery domain to a discovery domain set.
 # isnsadm add-dd -s operation-dd-set engineering-dd
Example 8 Displaying a Discovery Domain Set
The following use of the list-dd-set displays the attributes of a discovery domain set.
 # isnsadm list-dd-set
 DD Set name: Default
  State: Disabled
  DD Name: Default
 DD Set name: operation-dd-set
  State: Disabled
  DD Name: engineering-dd
Example 9 Enabling a Discovery Domain Set
The following use of the enable-dd-set subcommand enables a discovery domain set.
 # isnsadm enable-dd-set Default
Example 10 Disabling a Discovery Domain Set
The following use of the disable-dd-set subcommand disables a discovery domain set.
 # isnsadm disable-dd-set Default
Example 11 Displaying Administrative Settings
The following use of the show-config subcommand displays current administrative settings.
 # isnsadm show-config
  Data Store Location: /etc/isns/isnsdata.xml
  Entity Status Inquiry Non-Response Threshold: 3
  Management SCN Enabled: yes
  Authorized Control Node Names: -
<beginning of page>
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wisnsadm _ Interface StabilityVolatile
iscsiadm(1M), iscsitadm(1M), isns(1M), attributes(5), smf(5)
When a subcommand is invoked with multiple operands and there are failures on one or more, but not all, operands,
isnsadm displays a generic message indicating partial failure, with list of failed operands. An error on a specific op<hy>
erand can be found by issuing the same subcommand on the failing operand.
