<beginning of page>
ldaptemplates.conf <-> configuration file for LDAP display template routines
/etc/opt/SUNWconn/ldap/current/ldaptemplates.conf
The ldaptemplates.conf file contains information used by the LDAP display routines.
Blank lines and lines that start with a hash character ('#') are treated as comments and ignored. Non-comment lines
contain one or more tokens. Tokens are separated by white space, and double quotes can be used to include white
space inside a token.
The first non-commment line specifies the version of the template information and must contain the token Version
followed by an integer version number. For example,
 Version 1
The current version is 1, so the above example is always the correct first line.
The remainder of the file consists of one or more display templates. The first two lines of the display template each
contain a single token that specifies singular and plural names for the template in a user-friendly format. For exam<hy>
ple,
 "Person"
 "People"
specifies appropriate names for a template designed to display person information.
The next line specifies the name of the icon or similar element that is associated with this template. For example,
 "person icon"
The next line is a blank-separated list of template options. "" can be used if no options are desired. Available options
are: addable (it is appropriate to allow entries of this type to be added), modrdn (it is appropriate to offer the modi<hy>
fy rdn operation), altview (this template is an alternate view of another template). For example,
 "addable" "modrdn"
The next portion of the template is a list of X.500 object classes that is used to determine whether the template
should be used to display a given entry. The object class information consists of one or more lines, followed by a ter<hy>
minating line that contains the single token END. Each line contains one or more object class names, all of which
must be present in a directory entry. Multiple lines can be used to associate more than one set of object classes with
a given template. For example,
 emailPerson
 orgPerson
 END
means that the template is appropriate for display of emailPerson entries or orgPerson entries.
The next line after the object class list is the name of the attribute to authenticate as to make changes (use "" if it is
appropriate to authenticate as the entry itself). For example,
 "owner"
The next line is the default attribute to use when naming a new entry, for example,
<beginning of page>
 "cn"
The next line is the distinguished name of the default location under which new entries are created. For example,
 "o=XYZ, c=US"
The next section is a list of rules used to assign default values to new entries. The list should be terminated with a
line that contains the single token END. Each line in this section should either begin with the token constant and be
followed by the name of the attribute and a constant value to assign, or the line should begin with addersdn fol<hy>
lowed by the name of an attribute whose value will be the DN of the person who has authenticated to add the entry.
For example,
 constant associatedDomain XYZ.us
 addersdn seeAlso
 END
The last portion of the template is a list of items to display. It consists of one or more lines, followed by a terminat<hy>
ing line that contains the single token END. Each line is must begin with the token samerow or the token item
It is assumed that each item appears on a row by itself unless it was preceded by a samerow line (in which case it
should be displayed on the same line as the previous item, if possible). Lines that begin with samerow should not
have any other tokens on them.
Lines that begin with item must have at least three more tokens on them: an item type, a label, and an attribute
name. Any extra tokens are taken as extra arguments.
The item type token must be one of the following strings:
cis case-ignore string attributes
mls multiline string attributes
mail RFC-822 conformant mail address attributes
dn distinguished name pointer attributes
bool Boolean attributes
jpeg JPEG photo attributes
jpegbtn a button that will retrieve and show a JPEG photo attribute
fax FAX T.4 format image attributes
faxbtn a button that will retrieve and show a FAX photo attribute
audiobtn audio attributes
<beginning of page>
time UTC time attributes
date UTC time attributes where only the date portion should be shown
url labeled Uniform Resource Locator attributes
searchact define an action that will do a directory search for other entries
linkact define an action which is a link to another display template
protected for an encrypted attribute, with values displayed as asterisks
An example of an item line for the drink attribute (displayed with label "Work Phone"):
 item cis "Work Phone" telephoneNumber
Example 1 A Sample Configuration File Containing a Template that Displays People Entries
The following template configuration file contains a templates for display of people entries.
  #
  # LDAP display templates
  #
  # Version must be 1 for now
  #
  Version 1
  #
  # Person template
  "Person"
  "People"
  # name of the icon that is associated with this template
  "person icon"
  # blank-separated list of template options ("" for none)
  "addable"
  #
  # objectclass list
  person
  END
  #
  # name of attribute to authenticate as ("" means auth as this entry)
  ""
  #
  # default attribute name to use when forming RDN of a new entry
  #
  "cn"
  #
  # default location when adding new entries (DN; "" means no default)
  "o=XYZ, c=US"
  #
  # rules used to define default values for new entries
  END
<beginning of page>
  #
  # list of items for display
  item jpegbtn "View Photo"  jpegPhoto "Next Photo"
  item audiobtn "Play Sound"  audio
  item cis "Also Known As"  cn
  item cis "Title"   title
  item mls "Work Address"  postalAddress
  item cis "Work Phone"  telephoneNumber
  item cis "Fax Number"  facsimileTelephoneNumber
  item mls "Home Address"  homePostalAddress
  item cis "Home Phone"  homePhone
  item cis "User ID"  uid
  item mail "E-Mail Address"mail
  item cis "Description"  description
  item dn  "See Also"  seeAlso
  END
See attributes(5) for a description of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wlldap Stability LevelEvolving
ldap_disptmpl(3LDAP), ldap_entry2text(3LDAP), attributes(5)
