<beginning of page>
lpadmin <-> configure the LP print service
lpadmin -p printer {options}
lpadmin -x dest
lpadmin -d [dest]
lpadmin -S print-wheel -T [-A alert-type] [-W minutes]
 [-Q requests]
lpadmin configures the LP print service by defining printers and devices. It is used to add and change printers, to re<hy>
move printers from service, to set or change the system default destination, to define alerts for printer faults, and to
mount print wheels.
The lpadmin command has options for: <bu> Adding or changing a printer <bu> Removing a printer destination <bu> Setting or
changing the system default destination <bu> Setting an alert for a print wheel
The options for each of the above categories are specified in the following subsections.
Several options support the use of lists. A list might contain, for example, user names, printers, printer forms, or
content types. A list of multiple items can have the form of either comma-separated names or have the entire list en<hy>
closed by double quotes with a space between each name. For example, both lists below are acceptable:
 one,two,three
 "one two three"
The first form of the lpadmin command (lpadmin -p printer {options}) configures a new printer or changes the
configuration of an existing printer. It also starts the print scheduler.
When creating a new printer, one of three options (-v, -U, or -s) must be supplied. In addition, only one of the fol<hy>
lowing can be supplied: -e, -i, or -m; if none of these three options is supplied, the model standard is used. The -h
and -l options are mutually exclusive. Printer and class names must be no longer than 14 characters and must consist
entirely of the characters A-Z, a-z, 0-9, dash (-) and underscore (_). If -s is specified, the following options are in<hy>
valid: -A, -e, -F, -h, -i, -l, -M, -m, -o, -U, -v, and -W.
The following options can appear in any order.
-A alert-type [-W minutes]
The -A option is used to define an alert that informs the administrator when a printer fault is detected, and periodi<hy>
cally thereafter, until the printer fault is cleared by the administrator. The alert-types are:
mail Send the alert message using mail (see mail(1)) to the administrator.
write Write the message to the terminal on which the administrator is logged in. If the administrator is logged in on
several terminals, one is chosen arbitrarily.
quiet Do not send messages for the current condition. An administrator can use this option to temporarily stop re<hy>
ceiving further messages about a known problem. Once the fault has been cleared and printing resumes, messages
are sent again when another fault occurs with the printer.
showfault Attempt to execute a fault handler on each system that has a print job in the queue. The fault handler is
/etc/lp/alerts/printer. It is invoked with three parameters: printer_name, date, file_name. The file_name is the name
of a file containing the fault message.
none Do not send messages; any existing alert definition for the printer is removed. No alert is sent when the printer
faults until a different alert-type (except quiet) is used.
<beginning of page>
shell-command Run the shell-command each time the alert needs to be sent. The shell command should expect the
message in standard input. If there are blank spaces embedded in the command, enclose the command in quotes. No<hy>
tice that the mail and write values for this option are equivalent to the values mail user-name and write user-name
respectively, where user-name is the current name for the administrator. This is the login name of the person submit<hy>
ting this command unless he or she has used the su command to change to another user ID. If the su command has
been used to change the user ID, then the user-name for the new ID is used.
list Display the type of the alert for the printer fault. No change is made to the alert.
When a fault occurs, the printing subsystem displays a message indicating that printing for a specified printer has
stopped and the reason for the stoppage. The message also indicates that printing will restart in a few minutes and
that you can enter an enable command if you want to restart sooner than that.
Following a fault that occurs in the middle of a print job, the job is reprinted from the beginning. An exception to
this occurs when you enter a command, such as the one shown below, that changes the page list to be printed.
 % lp -i request-id -P ...
For a given print request, the presence of multiple reasons for failure indicate multiple attempts at printing.
The LP print service can detect printer faults only through an adequate fast filter and only when the standard inter<hy>
face program or a suitable customized interface program is used. Furthermore, the level of recovery after a fault de<hy>
pends on the capabilities of the filter.
If, instead of a single printer, the keyword all is displayed in an alert, the alert applies to all printers.
If the -W option is not used to arrange fault alerting for printer, the default procedure is to mail one message to the
administrator of printer per fault. This is equivalent to specifying -W once or -W 0. If minutes is a number greater
than zero, an alert is sent at intervals specified by minutes.
-c class
Insert printer into the specified class. class is created if it does not already exist. This option requires the -U dial-in<hy>
fo or -v device options.
-D comment
Save this comment for display whenever a user asks for a full description of printer (see lpstat(1)). The LP print ser<hy>
vice does not interpret this comment.
-e printer
Copy the interface program of an existing printer to be the interface program for printer. (Options -i and -m must
not be specified with this option.)
-f allow:form-list
-f deny:form-list
Allow or deny the forms in form-list to be printed on printer. By default no forms are allowed on a new printer.
For each printer, the LP print service keeps two lists of forms: an ``allow-list'' of forms that can be used with the
printer, and a ``deny-list'' of forms that cannot be used with the printer. With the -f allow option, the forms listed are
added to the allow-list and removed from the deny-list. With the -f deny option, the forms listed are added to the de<hy>
ny-list and removed from the allow-list.
If the allow-list is not empty, only the forms in the list can be used on the printer, regardless of the contents of the
deny-list. If the allow-list is empty, but the deny-list is not, the forms in the deny-list cannot be used with the printer.
All forms can be excluded from a printer by specifying -f deny:all. All forms can be used on a printer (provided the
printer can handle all the characteristics of each form) by specifying -f allow:all.
The LP print service uses this information as a set of guidelines for determining where a form can be mounted. Ad<hy>
ministrators, however, are not restricted from mounting a form on any printer. If mounting a form on a particular
<beginning of page>
printer is in disagreement with the information in the allow-list or deny-list, the administrator is warned but the
mount is accepted. Nonetheless, if a user attempts to issue a print or change request for a form and printer combina<hy>
tion that is in disagreement with the information, the request is accepted only if the form is currently mounted on the
printer. If the form is later unmounted before the request can print, the request is canceled and the user is notified by
mail.
If the administrator tries to specify a form as acceptable for use on a printer that does not have the capabilities need<hy>
ed by the form, the command is rejected.
Notice the other use of -f, with the -M option, below.
The -T option must be invoked first with lpadmin to identify the printer type before the -f option can be used.
-F fault-recovery
This option specifies the recovery to be used for any print request that is stopped because of a printer fault, according
to the value of fault-recovery:
continue Continue printing on the top of the page where printing stopped. This requires a filter to wait for the fault
to clear before automatically continuing.
beginning Start printing the request again from the beginning.
wait Disable printing on printer and wait for the administrator or a user to enable printing again.
During the wait, the administrator or the user who submitted the stopped print request can issue a change request
that specifies where printing should resume. (See the -i option of the lp command.) If no change request is made be<hy>
fore printing is enabled, printing resumes at the top of the page where stopped, if the filter allows; otherwise, the re<hy>
quest is printed from the beginning.
-h
Indicate that the device associated with the printer is hardwired. If neither of the mutually exclusive options, -h and
-l, is specified, -h is assumed.
-i interface
Establish a new interface program for printer. interface is the pathname of the new program. (The -e and -m options
must not be specified with this option.)
-I content-type-list
Allow printer to handle print requests with the content types listed in a content-type-list.
The type simple is recognized as the default content type for files in the UNIX system. A simple type of file is a da<hy>
ta stream containing only printable ASCII characters and the following control characters:
tab(); cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i) cw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) lw(1.83i) Control CharOctal ValueMeaning
BACKSPACE10Move back one char, except at beginning of line TAB11Move to next tab stop LINEFEED12Move
to beginning of
 (newline) next line FORMFEED14Move to beginning of next page RETURN15Move to beginning of current line
To prevent the print service from considering simple a valid type for the printer, specify either an explicit value
(such as the printer type) in the content-type-list, or an empty list. If you do want simple included along with other
types, you must include simple in the content-type-list.
In addition to content types defined by the print administrator, the type PostScript is recognized and supported by
the Solaris print subsystem. This includes filters to support PostScript as the printer content type.
<beginning of page>
The type any is recognized as a special content type for files. When declared as the input type for a printer, it signals
the print sub-system not to do any filtering on the file before sending it to the printer.
Except for simple and any, each content-type name is determined by the administrator. If the printer type is speci<hy>
fied by the -T option, then the printer type is implicitly considered to be also a valid content type.
-l
Indicate that the device associated with printer is a login terminal. The LP scheduler (lpsched) disables all login ter<hy>
minals automatically each time it is started. (The -h option must not be specified with this option.)
-m model
Select model interface program, provided with the LP print service, for the printer. (Options -e and -i must not be
specified with this option.)
-M -f form-name [-a [-o filebreak]] [-t tray-number]]
Mount the form form-name on printer. Print requests that need the pre-printed form form-name is printed on printer.
If more than one printer has the form mounted and the user has specified any (with the -d option of the lp command)
as the printer destination, then the print request is printed on the one printer that also meets the other needs of the re<hy>
quest.
The page length and width, and character and line pitches needed by the form are compared with those allowed for
the printer, by checking the capabilities in the terminfo database for the type of printer. If the form requires at<hy>
tributes that are not available with the printer, the administrator is warned but the mount is accepted. If the form lists
a print wheel as mandatory, but the print wheel mounted on the printer is different, the administrator is also warned
but the mount is accepted.
If the -a option is given, an alignment pattern is printed, preceded by the same initialization of the physical printer
that precedes a normal print request, with one exception: no banner page is printed. Printing is assumed to start at
the top of the first page of the form. After the pattern is printed, the administrator can adjust the mounted form in the
printer and press return for another alignment pattern (no initialization this time), and can continue printing as many
alignment patterns as desired. The administrator can quit the printing of alignment patterns by typing q.
If the -o filebreak option is given, a formfeed is inserted between each copy of the alignment pattern. By default, the
alignment pattern is assumed to correctly fill a form, so no formfeed is added.
If the -t tray-number option is specified, printer tray tray-number is used.
A form is ``unmounted'' either by mounting a new form in its place or by using the -f none option. By default, a new
printer has no form mounted.
Notice the other use of -f without the -M option above.
-M -S print-wheel
Mount the print-wheel on printer. Print requests that need the print-wheel are printed on printer. If more than one
printer has print-wheel mounted and the user has specified any (with the -d option of the lp command) as the printer
destination, then the print request is printed on the one printer that also meets the other needs of the request.
If the print-wheel is not listed as acceptable for the printer, the administrator is warned but the mount is accepted. If
the printer does not take print wheels, the command is rejected.
A print wheel is ``unmounted'' either by mounting a new print wheel in its place or by using the option -S none. By
default, a new printer has no print wheel mounted.
Notice the other uses of the -S option without the -M option described below.
-n ppdfilename
Specify a PPD file for creating and modifying printer queues. ppdfilename is the full path and file name to the PPD
file. Used in conjunction with the -p, -d, -x, or -S options.
<beginning of page>
-o option
The -o option defines default printer configuration values given to an interface program. The default can be explicitly
overwritten for individual requests by the user (see lp(1)), or taken from a preprinted form description (see lp<hy>
forms(1M) and lp(1)).
There are several options which are predefined by the system. In addition, any number of key-value pairs can be de<hy>
fined. See the section "Predefined Options Used with the -o Option", below.
-P paper-name
Specify a paper type list that the printer supports.
-r class
Remove printer from the specified class. If printer is the last member of class, then class is removed.
-S list
Allow either the print wheels or aliases for character sets named in list to be used on the printer.
If the printer is a type that takes print wheels, then list is a comma or space separated list of print wheel names.
These are the only print wheels considered mountable on the printer. (You can always force a different print wheel to
be mounted.) Until the option is used to specify a list, no print wheels are considered mountable on the printer, and
print requests that ask for a particular print wheel with this printer are rejected.
If the printer is a type that has selectable character sets, then list is a list of character set name ``mappings'' or alias<hy>
es. Each ``mapping'' is of the form known-name=alias The known-name is a character set number preceded by cs
(such as cs3 for character set three) or a character set name from the terminfo database entry csnm. See termin<hy>
fo(4). If this option is not used to specify a list, only the names already known from the terminfo database or num<hy>
bers with a prefix of cs is acceptable for the printer. If list is the word none, any existing print wheel lists or charac<hy>
ter set aliases are removed.
Notice the other uses of the -S with the -M option described above.
The -T option must be invoked first with lpadmin to identify the printer type before the -S option can be used.
-s system-name
The -s option can be used for both remote or local printers. For remote printers:
-s system-name[!printer-name] (UUCP format)
-s printer-name@system-name (RCMD format)
Make a remote printer (one that must be accessed through another system) accessible to users on your system. sys<hy>
tem-name is the name of the remote system on which the remote printer is located it. printer-name is the name used
on the remote system for that printer. For example, if you want to access printer1 on system1 and you want it called
printer2 on your system:
 -p printer2 -s system1!printer1
 -p printer2 -s printer1@system1
-s scheme://end-point (URI format)
Make a remote printer (one that must be accessed through another system) accessible to users on your system. The
supported schemes include lpd and ipp. Specify URI's using the lpd format as follows:
<beginning of page>
 lpd://server/printers/queue[#Solaris]
URI's using the ipp format are defined by the remote print server. They are generally of the format:
 ipp://server/printers/queue
In either case, server specifies the hostname or IP address of the remote print server, queue specifies the name of the
print queue on the remote print server, and the optional #Solarisspecifies that the remote print server is a Solaris
server when lpd URI format is being used.
For example:
 -p printer -s lpd://server/printers/queue#Solaris
 -p printer -s ipp://server/printers/queue
For local printers:
-s "localhost" Use localhost for the system-name to be used by the print service. In an environment where the node<hy>
name is variable, print queues are invalidated when the nodename changes. Using localhost as the system-name al<hy>
lows print queues to be maintained across changing nodenames. The system-name, as used by the print service, is
only set to localhost when explicitely set with this option; by default, lpadmin sets system-name to nodename. For
example, if you want to configure a new printer on the local system, and want it called printer3:
-p printer3 -s localhost -v device
This option should never be used when creating name service maps.
-T printer-type-list
Identify the printer as being of one or more printer-types. Each printer-type is used to extract data from the terminfo
database; this information is used to initialize the printer before printing each user's request. Some filters might also
use a printer-type to convert content for the printer. If this option is not used, the default printer-type is unknown.
No information is extracted from terminfo so each user request is printed without first initializing the printer. Also,
this option must be used if the following are to work: -o cpi, -o lpi, -o width, and -o length options of the lpadmin
and lp commands, and the -S and -f options of the lpadmin command.
If the printer-type-list contains more than one type, then the content-type-list of the -I option must either be specified
as simple, as empty (-I ""), or not specified at all.
-tnumber-of-trays
Specify the number of trays when creating the printer.
-u allow:login-ID-list
-u deny:login-ID-list
Allow or deny the users in login-ID-list access to the printer. By default all users are allowed on a new printer. The
login-ID-list argument can include any or all of the following constructs:
login-ID a user on any system
system-name!login-ID a user on system system-name
system-name!all all users on system system-name
<beginning of page>
all!login-ID a user on all systems
all all users on all systems
For each printer, the LP print service keeps two lists of users: an ``allow-list'' of people allowed to use the printer,
and a ``deny-list'' of people denied access to the printer. With the -u allow option, the users listed are added to the
allow-list and removed from the deny-list. With the -u deny option, the users listed are added to the deny-list and re<hy>
moved from the allow-list.
If the allow-list is not empty, only the users in the list can use the printer, regardless of the contents of the deny-list.
If the allow-list is empty, but the deny-list is not, the users in the deny-list cannot use the printer. All users can be de<hy>
nied access to the printer by specifying -u deny:all. All users can use the printer by specifying -u allow:all.

The -U option allows your print service to access a remote printer. (It does not enable your print service to access a
remote printer service.) Specifically, -U assigns the ``dialing'' information dial-info to the printer. dial-info is used
with the dial routine to call the printer. Any network connection supported by the Basic Networking Utilities works.
dial-info can be either a phone number for a modem connection, or a system name for other kinds of connections.
Or, if -U direct is given, no dialing takes place, because the name direct is reserved for a printer that is directly con<hy>
nected. If a system name is given, it is used to search for connection details from the file /etc/uucp/Systems or relat<hy>
ed files. The Basic Networking Utilities are required to support this option. By default, -U direct is assumed.
-v device
Associate a device with printer. device is the path name of a file that is writable by lp. Notice that the same device
can be associated with more than one printer.
-v scheme://end-point
Associate a network attached device with printer.
scheme is the method or protocol used to access the network attached device and end-point is the information neces<hy>
sary to contact that network attached device. Use of this device format requires the use of the uri interface script and
can only be used with the smb scheme at this time.
For example:
 # lpadmin -p queue -v smb://smb-service/printer -m uri
See the /usr/sfw/man/man1m/smbspool.1m man page for details.
The -x dest option removes the destination dest (a printer or a class), from the LP print service. If dest is a printer
and is the only member of a class, then the class is deleted, too. If dest is all, all printers and classes are removed. If
there are no remaining local printers and the scheduler is still running, the scheduler is shut down.
No other options are allowed with -x.
The -d [dest] option makes dest (an existing printer or class) the new system default destination. If dest is not sup<hy>
plied, then there is no system default destination. No other options are allowed with -d.
-S print-wheel [-A alert-type] [-W minutes] [-Q requests] -T
The -S print-wheel option is used with the -A alert-type option to define an alert to mount the print wheel when
there are jobs queued for it. If this command is not used to arrange alerting for a print wheel, no alert is sent for the
print wheel. Notice the other use of -A, with the -p option, above.
The alert-types are:
mail Send the alert message using the mail command to the administrator.
<beginning of page>
write Write the message, using the write command, to the terminal on which the administrator is logged in. If the
administrator is logged in on several terminals, one is arbitrarily chosen.
quiet Do not send messages for the current condition. An administrator can use this option to temporarily stop re<hy>
ceiving further messages about a known problem. Once the print-wheel has been mounted and subsequently un<hy>
mounted, messages are sent againwhen the number of print requests reaches the threshold specified by the -Q op<hy>
tion.
none Do not send messages until the -A option is given again with a different alert-type (other than quiet).
shell-command Run the shell-command each time the alert needs to be sent. The shell command should expect the
message in standard input. If there are blanks embedded in the command, enclose the command in quotes. Notice
that the mail and write values for this option are equivalent to the values mail user-name and write user-name re<hy>
spectively, where user-name is the current name for the administrator. This is the login name of the person submit<hy>
ting this command unless he or she has used the su command to change to another user ID. If the su command has
been used to change the user ID, then the user-name for the new ID is used.
list Display the type of the alert for the print wheel on standard output. No change is made to the alert.
The message sent appears as follows:
 The print wheel print-wheel needs to be mounted
 on the printer(s):
 printer(integer1requests) integer2 print requests
 await this print wheel.
The printers listed are those that the administrator had earlier specified were candidates for this print wheel. The
number integer1 listed next to each printer is the number of requests eligible for the printer. The number integer2
shown after the printer list is the total number of requests awaiting the print wheel. It is less than the sum of the other
numbers if some requests can be handled by more than one printer.
If the print-wheel is all, the alerting defined in this command applies to all print wheels already defined to have an
alert.
If the -W option is not given, the default procedure is that only one message is sent per need to mount the print
wheel. Not specifying the -W option is equivalent to specifying -W once or -W 0. If minutes is a number greater
than zero, an alert is sent at intervals specified by minutes.
If the -Q option is also given, the alert is sent when a certain number (specified by the argument requests) of print re<hy>
quests that need the print wheel are waiting. If the -Q option is not given, or requests is 1 or any (which are both the
default), a message is sent as soon as anyone submits a print request for the print wheel when it is not mounted.
A number of options, described below, are predefined for use with -o. These options are used for adjusting printer
capabilities, adjusting printer port characteristics, configuring network printers, and controlling the use of banner.
The -o also supports an arbitrary keyword=value format, which is referred to below as an undefined option.
The length, width, cpi, and lpi parameters can be used in conjunction with the -o option to adjust printer capabili<hy>
ties. The format of the parameters and their values is as follows:
 length=scaled-decimal-number
 width=scaled-decimal-number
 cpi=scaled-decimal-number
 lpi=scaled-decimal-number
The term scaled-decimal-number refers to a non-negative number used to indicate a unit of size. The type of unit is
shown by a ``trailing'' letter attached to the number. Three types of scaled-decimal-numbers can be used with the LP
print service: numbers that show sizes in centimeters (marked with a trailing c); numbers that show sizes in inches
(marked with a trailing i); and numbers that show sizes in units appropriate to use (without a trailing letter), that is,
<beginning of page>
lines, characters, lines per inch, or characters per inch.
The option values must agree with the capabilities of the type of physical printer, as defined in the terminfo database
for the printer type. If they do not, the command is rejected.
The defaults are defined in the terminfo entry for the specified printer type. The defaults can be reset by:
 lpadmin -p printername -o length=
 lpadmin -p printername -o width=
 lpadmin -p printername -o cpi=
 lpadmin -p printername -o lpi=
You use the stty keyword in conjunction with the o option to adjust printer port characteristics. The general form of
the stty portion of the command is:
 stty="'stty-option-list'"
The stty-option-list is not checked for allowed values, but is passed directly to the stty program by the standard inter<hy>
face program. Any error messages produced by stty when a request is processed (by the standard interface program)
are mailed to the user submitting the request.
The default for stty is:
 stty="'9600 cs8 -cstopb -parenb ixon
  -ixany opost -olcuc onlcr
  -ocrnl -onocr
  -onlret -ofill nl0 cr0 tab0 bs0 vt0 ff0'"
The default can be reset by:
 lpadmin -p printername -o stty=
The dest, protocol, bsdctrl, and timeout parameters are used in conjunction with the -o option to configure network
printers. The format of these keywords and their assigned values is as follows:
 dest=string protocol=string bsdctrl=string \
  timeout=non-negative-integer-seconds
These four options are provided to support network printing. Each option is passed directly to the interface program;
any checking for allowed values is done there.
The value of dest is the name of the destination for the network printer; the semantics for value dest are dependent
on the printer and the configuration. There is no default.
The value of option protocol sets the over-the-wire protocol to the printer. The default for option protocol is bsd.
The value of option bsdctrl sets the print order of control and data files (BSD protocol only); the default for this op<hy>
tion is control file first. The value of option timeout sets the seed value for backoff time when the printer is busy.
The default value for the timeout option is 10 seconds. The defaults can be reset by:
 lpadmin -p printername -o protocol=
 lpadmin -p printername -o bsdctrl=
 lpadmin -p printername -o timeout=
Use the following commands to control the use of the banner page:
<beginning of page>
 lpadmin -p printer -o nobanner
 lpadmin -p printer -o banner
 lpadmin -p printer -o banner=always
 lpadmin -p printer -o banner=never
 lpadmin -p printer -o banner=optional
The first and fifth commands (-o nobanner and -o banner=optional) are equivalent. The default is to print the ban<hy>
ner page, unless a user specifies -o nobanner on an lp command line.
The second and third commands (-o banner and -o banner=always) are equivalent. Both cause a banner page to be
printed always, even if a user specifies lp -o nobanner. The root user can override this command.
The fourth command (-o banner=never) causes a banner page never to be printed, even if a user specifies lp -o ban<hy>
ner. The root user can override this command.
The -o option supports the use of arbitrary, user-defined options with the following format:
key=value
Each key=value is passed directly to the interface program. Any checking for allowed values is done in the interface
program.
Any default values for a given key=value option are defined in the interface program. If a default is provided, it can
be reset by typing the key without any value:
 lpadmin -p printername -o key=
lpadmin -p printer -o foo | nofoo
Sets boolean values foo=true | foo=false.
In the following examples, prtr can be any name up to 14 characters and can be the same name as the ping(1M)
name. Example 1 Configuring an HP Postscript Printer with a Jet Direct Network Interface
The following example configures an HP postscript printer with a jet direct network interface:
 example# lpadmin -p prtr -v /dev/null -m netstandard \
  -o dest=ping_name_of_prtr:9100 -o protocol=tcp -T PS -I \
  postscript
 example# enable prtr
 example# accept prtr
Example 2 Configuring a Standard Postscript Network Printer
The following example configures a standard postscript network printer:
 example# lpadmin -p prtr -v /dev/null -m netstandard \
  -o dest=ping_name_of_prtr -T PS -I postscript
 example# enable prtr
 example# accept prtr
The following exit values are returned:
<beginning of page>
0 Successful completion.
non-zero An error occurred.
/var/spool/lp/*
/etc/lp
/etc/lp/alerts/printer Fault handler for lpadmin
/etc/printers.conf System printer configuration database
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
pcu _ Interface StabilityObsolete
enable(1), lp(1), lpstat(1), mail(1), stty(1), accept(1M), lpforms(1M), lpsched(1M), lpsystem(1M), ping(1M), di<hy>
al(3NSL), terminfo(4), attributes(5)

When using lpadmin to provide access to a remote printer, remote configuration data is stored in /etc/printers.conf.
This data includes a bsdaddr and a printer-uri-supported attribute. The data in this file can be shared through the
use of a network name service or replicated across multiple systems. If the data is shared, it is important to make
sure that the bsdaddr and printer-uri-supported contain hostname information that is correctly resolved on all
hosts sharing this data. Also, the printer-uri-supported is the preferred means of accessing remote print service.
The bsdaddr is supplied for backward compatability with Solaris 2.6-10 systems.
