<beginning of page>
lpfilter <-> administer filters used with the LP print service
/usr/sbin/lpfilter -f filter-name
 {- | -i | -l | -x | -F pathname}
The lpfilter command is used to add, change, delete, or list a filter used with the LP print service. These filters con<hy>
vert the content of a file to have a content type acceptable to a printer.
Arguments consist of the -ffilter-name option and exactly one of the arguments appearing within braces ({}) in the
SYNOPSIS.
<mi> Adds or changes a filter as specified from standard input. The format of the input is specified below. If -f all is
specified with the <mi> option, the specified change is made to all existing filters. This is not useful.
-f filter-name Specifies the filter-name of the filter to be added, changed, reset, deleted, or listed. The filter name all
is a special filter name defined below. The -f option is required.
-F pathname Adds or changes a filter as specified by the contents of the file pathname. The format of the file's con<hy>
tents is specified below. If -f all is specified with the -F option, the specified change is made to all existing filters.
This is not useful.
-i Resets a filter to its default settings. Using -f all with the -i option restores all filters for which predefined set<hy>
tings are available to their original settings.
-l Lists a filter description. Using -f all with the -l option produces a list of all filters.
-x Deletes a filter. Using -f all with the -x option results in all filters being deleted.
The filter named in the -f option is added to the filter table. If the filter already exists, its description is changed to re<hy>
flect the new information in the input.
When <mi> is specified, standard input supplies the filter description. When -F is specified, the file pathname supplies
the filter description. One of these two options must be specified to add or change a filter.
When an existing filter is changed with the -F or <mi> option, lines in the filter description that are not specified in the
new information are not changed. When a new filter is added with this command, unspecified lines receive default
values. See below.
Filters are used to convert the content of a request from its initial type into a type acceptable to a printer. For a given
print request, the LP print service knows the following: <bu> The content type of the request (specified by lp -T or de<hy>
termined implicitly). <bu> The name of the printer (specified by lp -d). <bu> The printer type (specified by lpadmin -T).
The printer type is intended to be a printer model, but some people specify it with a content type even though lpad<hy>
min -I is intended for this purpose. <bu> The content types acceptable to the printer (specified by lpadmin -I).
The values specified by the lpadmin -T are treated as if they were specified by the -I option as well. <bu> The modes of
printing asked for by the originator of the request (specified by various options to lp).
The system uses the above information to construct a list of one or more filters that converts the document's content
type into a content type acceptable to the printer and consumes all lp arguments that invoke filters (-y and -P).
The contents of the file (specified by the -F option) and the input stream from standard input (specified by <mi>) must
consist of a series of lines, such that each line conforms to the syntax specified by one of the seven lines below. All
lists are comma or space separated. Each item contains a description.
 Input types: content-type-list
 Output types: content-type-list
 Printer types: printer-type-list
 Printers: printer-list
 Filter type: filter-type
<beginning of page>
 Command: shell-command
 Options: template-list
Input types This gives the content types that can be accepted by the filter. The default is any. The document content
type must be a member of this list for the initial filter in the sequence.
Output types This gives the content types that the filter can produce from any of the input (content) types. The de<hy>
fault is any. The intersection of the output types of this list and the content types acceptable to the printer (from
lpadmin -I and lpadmin -T) must be non-null for the last filter in the sequence. For adjacent filters in the sequence,
the intersection of output types of one and the input types of the next must be non-null.
Printer types This gives the printer types for which this printer can be used. The LP print service will restrict the
use of the filter to these printer types (from lpadmin -T). The default is any.
Printers This gives the names of the printers for which the filter can be used. The LP print service will restrict the
use of the filter to just the printers named. The default is any.
Filter type This marks the filter as a slow filter or a fast filter. Slow filters are generally those that take a long time
to convert their input (that is, minutes or hours). They are run before the job is scheduled for a printer, to keep the
printers from being tied up while the filter is running. If a listed printer is on a remote system, the filter type for it
must have the value slow. That is, if a client defines a filter, it must be a slow filter. Fast filters are generally those
that convert their input quickly (that is, faster than the printer can process the data), or those that must be connected
to the printer when run. Fast filters will be given to the interface program to run while connected to the physical
printer.
Command This specifies which program to run to invoke the filter. The full program pathname as well as fixed op<hy>
tions must be included in the shell-command; additional options are constructed, based on the characteristics of
each print request and on the Options field. A command must be given for each filter. The command must accept a
data stream as standard input and produce the converted data stream on its standard output. This allows filter pipe<hy>
lines to be constructed to convert data not handled by a single filter.
Options This is a comma-separated list of templates used by the LP print service to construct options to the filter
from the characteristics of each print request listed in the table later. The -y and - P arguments to the lp command
cause a filter sequence to be built even if there is no need for a conversion of content types.
In general, each template is of the following form:
keyword pattern = replacement
The keyword names the characteristic that the template attempts to map into a filter-specific option; each valid
keyword is listed in the table below.
A pattern is one of the following: a literal pattern of one of the forms listed in the table, a single asterisk (*), or a
regular expression. If pattern matches the value of the characteristic, the template fits and is used to generate a
filter-specific option. The replacement is what will be used as the option.
Regular expressions are the same as those found on the regexp(5) manual page. This includes the \(...\) and \n con<hy>
structions, which can be used to extract portions of the pattern for copying into the replacement, and the &, which
can be used to copy the entire pattern into the replacement.
The replacement can also contain a *; it too, is replaced with the entire pattern, just like the & of regexp(5).
The keywords are:
 lp Option Characteristic keyword Possible patterns
 -T Content type INPUT content-type
<beginning of page>
  (input)
 Not applicable Content type OUTPUT content-type
  (output)
 not applicable Printer type TERM printer-type
 -d Printer name PRINTER printer-name
 -f, -o cpi= Character pitch CPI integer
 -f, -o lpi= Line pitch LPI integer
 -f, -o length= Page length LENGTH integer
 -f, -o width= Page width WIDTH integer
 -P Pages to print PAGES page-list
 -S Character set CHARSET character-set-name
  Print wheel CHARSET print-wheel-name
 -f Form name FORM form-name
 -y Modes MODES mode
 -n Number of COPIES integer
  copies
If the filter named is one originally delivered with the LP print service, the -i option restores the original filter de<hy>
scription.
The -x option is used to delete the filter specified in filter-name from the LP filter table.
The -l option is used to list the description of the filter named in filter-name. If the command is successful, the fol<hy>
lowing message is sent to standard output:
 Input types: content-type-list
 Output types: content-type-list
 Printer types: printer-type-list
 Printers: printer-list
 Filter type: filter-type
 Command: shell-command
 Options: template-list
If the command fails, an error message is sent to standard error.
See largefile(5) for the description of the behavior of lpfilter when encountering files greater than or equal to 2
Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes). Example 1 Printing with the landscape option
For example, the template
 MODES landscape = -l
shows that if a print request is submitted with the -y landscape option, the filter will be given the option -l.
Example 2 Selecting the printer type
As another example, the template
<beginning of page>
 TERM * = -T *
shows that the filter will be given the option -T printer-type for whichever printer-type is associated with a print re<hy>
quest using the filter.
Example 3 Using the keywords table
Consider the template
 MODES prwidth\=\(.*\) = -w\1
Suppose a user gives the command
 lp -y prwidth=10
From the table above, the LP print service determines that the -y option is handled by a MODES template. The
MODES template here works because the pattern prwidth=) matches the prwidth=10 given by the user. The re<hy>
placement -w1 causes the LP print service to generate the filter option -w10. If necessary, the LP print service will
construct a filter pipeline by concatenating several filters to handle the user's file and all the print options. See sh(1)
for a description of a pipeline. If the print service constructs a filter pipeline, the INPUT and OUTPUT values used
for each filter in the pipeline are the types of input and output for that filter, not for the entire pipeline.
The following exit values are returned:
0 Successful completion.
non-zero An error occurred.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
psu
lp(1), sh(1), lpadmin(1M), attributes(5), largefile(5), regexp(5)

If the lp command specifies more than one document, the filtering chain is determined by the first document. Other
documents may have a different format, but they will print correctly only if the filter chain is able to handle their for<hy>
mat.
