<beginning of page>
lpforms <-> administer forms used with the LP print service
lpforms -f form-name option
lpforms -f form-name -A alert-type [-P paper-name [-d]]
 [-Q requests] [-W minutes]
The lpforms command administers the use of preprinted forms, such as company letterhead paper, with the LP print
service. A form is specified by its form-name. Users may specify a form when submitting a print request (see lp(1)).
The argument all can be used instead of form-name with either of the command lines shown above. The first com<hy>
mand line allows the administrator to add, change, and delete forms, to list the attributes of an existing form, and to
allow and deny users access to particular forms. The second command line is used to establish the method by which
the administrator is alerted that the form form-name must be mounted on a printer.
The following options are supported:
-f form-name Specify a form.
The first form of lpforms requires that one of the following options (<mi>, -l, -F, -x) must be used:
-F pathname To add or change form form-name, as specified by the information in pathname.
<mi> To add or change form form-name, as specified by the information from standard input.
-l To list the attributes of form form-name.
-x To delete form form-name (this option must be used separately; it may not be used with any other option).
The second form of the lpforms command requires the -A alert-type option. The other options are optional.
-A alert-type Defines an alert to mount the form when there are queued jobs which need it.
-P paper-name [ -d ] Specify the paper name when creating the form. If -d is specified, this paper is the default.
-Q requests An alert will be sent when a certain number of print requests that need the form are waiting.
-W minutes An alert will be sent at intervals specified by minutes.
The -F pathname option is used to add a new form, form-name, to the LP print service, or to change the attributes of
an existing form. The form description is taken from pathname if the -F option is given, or from the standard input if
the <mi> option is used. One of these two options must be used to define or change a form.
pathname is the path name of a file that contains all or any subset of the following information about the form.
 Page length: scaled-decimal-number1
 Page width: scaled-decimal-number2
 Number of pages: integer
 Line pitch: scaled-decimal-number3
 Character pitch: scaled-decimal-number4
 Character set choice: character-set/print-wheel [mandatory]
 Ribbon color: ribbon-color
 Comment:
 comment
 Alignment pattern: [content-type]
 content
<beginning of page>
The term ``scaled-decimal-number'' refers to a non-negative number used to indicate a unit of size. The type of unit
is shown by a ``trailing'' letter attached to the number. Three types of scaled decimal numbers can be used with the
LP print service: numbers that show sizes in centimeters (marked with a trailing c); numbers that show sizes in inch<hy>
es (marked with a trailing i); and numbers that show sizes in units appropriate to use (without a trailing letter); lines,
characters, lines per inch, or characters per inch.
Except for the last two lines, the above lines may appear in any order. The Comment: and comment items must ap<hy>
pear in consecutive order but may appear before the other items, and the Alignment pattern: and the content items
must appear in consecutive order at the end of the file. Also, the comment item may not contain a line that begins
with any of the key phrases above, unless the key phrase is preceded with a > sign. Any leading > sign found in the
comment will be removed when the comment is displayed. There is no case distinction among the key phrases.
When this command is issued, the form specified by form-name is added to the list of forms. If the form already ex<hy>
ists, its description is changed to reflect the new information. Once added, a form is available for use in a print re<hy>
quest, except where access to the form has been restricted, as described under the -u option. A form may also be al<hy>
lowed to be used on certain printers only.
A description of each form attribute is below:
Page length and Page Width
Before printing the content of a print request needing this form, the generic interface program provided with the LP
print service will initialize the physical printer to handle pages scaled-decimal-number1 long, and scaled-decimal-
number2 wide using the printer type as a key into the terminfo(4) database. The page length and page width will al<hy>
so be passed, if possible, to each filter used in a request needing this form.
Number of pages
Each time the alignment pattern is printed, the LP print service will attempt to truncate the content to a single form
by, if possible, passing to each filter the page subset of 1-integer.
Line pitch and Character pitch
Before printing the content of a print request needing this form, the interface program provided with the LP print
service will initialize the physical printer to handle these pitches, using the printer type as a key into the terminfo(4)
database. Also, the pitches will be passed, if possible, to each filter used in a request needing this form. scaled-deci<hy>
mal-number3 is in lines-per-centimeter if a c is appended, and lines-per-inch otherwise; similarly, scaled-decimal-
number4 is in characters-per-centimeter if a c is appended, and characters-per-inch otherwise. The character pitch
can also be given as elite (12 characters-per-inch), pica (10 characters-per-inch), or compressed (as many charac<hy>
ters-per-inch as possible).
Character set choice
When the LP print service alerts an administrator to mount this form, it will also mention that the print wheel print-
wheel should be used on those printers that take print wheels. If printing with this form is to be done on a printer that
has selectable or loadable character sets instead of print wheels, the interface programs provided with the LP print
service will automatically select or load the correct character set. If mandatory is appended, a user is not allowed to
select a different character set for use with the form; otherwise, the character set or print wheel named is a sugges<hy>
tion and a default only.
Ribbon color
When the LP print service alerts an administrator to mount this form, it will also mention that the color of the ribbon
should be ribbon-color.
Comment
The LP print service will display the comment unaltered when a user asks about this form (see lpstat(1)).
Alignment pattern
When mounting this form, an administrator can ask for the content to be printed repeatedly, as an aid in correctly
<beginning of page>
positioning the preprinted form. The optional content-type defines the type of printer for which content had been
generated. If content-type is not given, simple is assumed. Note that the content is stored as given, and will be read<hy>
able only by the user lp.
When an existing form is changed with this command, items missing in the new information are left as they were.
When a new form is added with this command, missing items will get the following defaults:
 Page Length: 66
 Page Width: 80
 Number of Pages: 1
 Line Pitch: 6
 Character Pitch: 10
 Character Set Choice: any
 Ribbon Color: any
LP print service" The -x option is used to delete the form form-name from the LP print service.
The -l option is used to list the attributes of the existing form form-name. The attributes listed are those described
under Adding and Changing a Form, above. Because of the potentially sensitive nature of the alignment pattern,
only the administrator can examine the form with this command. Other people may use the lpstat(1) command to
examine the non-sensitive part of the form description.
The -u option, followed by the argument allow:login-ID-list or -u deny:login-ID-list lets you determine which
users will be allowed to specify a particular form with a print request. This option can be used with the -F or <mi> op<hy>
tion, each of which is described above under Adding or Changing a Form.
The login-ID-list argument may include any or all of the following constructs:
login-ID A user on any system
system_name!login-ID A user on system system_name
system_name!all All users on system system_name
all!login-ID A user on all systems
all All users on all systems
The LP print service keeps two lists of users for each form: an ``allow-list'' of people allowed to use the form, and a
``deny-list'' of people that may not use the form. With the -u allow option, the users listed are added to the allow-list
and removed from the deny-list. With the -u deny option, the users listed are added to the deny-list and removed
from the allow-list. (Both forms of the -u option can be run together with the -F or the <mi> option.)
If the allow-list is not empty, only the users in the list are allowed access to the form, regardless of the content of the
deny-list. If the allow-list is empty but the deny-list is not, the users in the deny-list may not use the form, (but all
others may use it). All users can be denied access to a form by specifying -f deny:all. All users can be allowed ac<hy>
cess to a form by specifying -f allow:all. (This is the default.)
The -f form-name option is used with the -A alert-type option to define an alert to mount the form when there are
queued jobs which need it. If this option is not used to arrange alerting for a form, no alert will be sent for that form.
The method by which the alert is sent depends on the value of the alert-type argument specified with the -A option.
The alert-types are:
mail Send the alert message using the mail command to the administrator.
<beginning of page>
write Write the message, using the write command, to the terminal on which the administrator is logged in. If the
administrator is logged in on several terminals, one is arbitrarily chosen.
quiet Do not send messages for the current condition. An administrator can use this option to temporarily stop re<hy>
ceiving further messages about a known problem. Once the form form-name has been mounted and subsequently un<hy>
mounted, messages will again be sent when the number of print requests reaches the threshold specified by the -Q
option.
showfault Attempt to execute a form alert handler on each system that has a print job for that form in the queue.
The fault handler is /etc/lp/alerts/form. It is invoked with three parameters: form_name, date, file_name. file_name
is the name of a file containing the form alert message.
none Do not send messages until the -A option is given again with a different alert-type (other than quiet).
shell-command Run the shell-command each time the alert needs to be sent. The shell command should expect the
message in standard input. If there are blank spaces embedded in the command, enclose the command in quotes.
Note that the mail and write values for this option are equivalent to the values mail login-ID and write login-ID re<hy>
spectively, where login-ID is the current name for the administrator. This will be the login name of the person sub<hy>
mitting this command unless he or she has used the su command to change to another login-ID. If the su command
has been used to change the user ID, then the user-name for the new ID is used.
list Display the type of the alert for the form on standard output. No change is made to the alert.
The message sent appears as follows:
 The form form-name needs to be mounted
 on the printer(s):printer (integer1 requests).
 integer2 print requests await this form.
 Use the ribbon-color ribbon.
 Use the print-wheel print wheel, if appropriate.
The printers listed are those that the administrator has specified as candidates for this form. The number integer1
listed next to each printer is the number of requests eligible for the printer. The number integer2 shown after the list
of printers is the total number of requests awaiting the form. It will be less than the sum of the other numbers if
some requests can be handled by more than one printer. The ribbon-color and print-wheel are those specified in the
form description. The last line in the message is always sent, even if none of the printers listed use print wheels, be<hy>
cause the administrator may choose to mount the form on a printer that does use a print wheel.
Where any color ribbon or any print wheel can be used, the statements above will read:
 Use any ribbon.
 Use any print-wheel.
If form-name is any, the alert-type defined in this command applies to any form for which an alert has not yet been
defined. If form-name is all, the alert-type defined in this command applies to all forms.
If the -W minutes option is not given, the default procedure is that only one message will be sent per need to mount
the form. Not specifying the -W option is equivalent to specifying -W once or -W 0. If minutes is a number greater
than 0, an alert will be sent at intervals specified by minutes.
If the -Q requests option is also given, the alert will be sent when a certain number (specified by the argument re<hy>
quests) of print requests that need the form are waiting. If the -Q option is not given, or the value of requests is 1 or
any (which are both the default), a message is sent as soon as anyone submits a print request for the form when it is
not mounted.
The -f option, followed by the -A option and the argument list is used to list the alert-type that has been defined for
<beginning of page>
the specified form form-name. No change is made to the alert. If form-name is recognized by the LP print service,
one of the following lines is sent to the standard output, depending on the type of alert for the form.
<mi> When requests requests are queued: alert withshell-command every minutes minutes
<mi> When requests requests are queued: write to user-name every minutes minutes
<mi> When requests requests are queued: mail to user-name every minutes minutes
<mi> No alert
The phrase every minutes minutes is replaced with once if minutes (-Wminutes) is 0.
The -A quiet option is used to stop messages for the current condition. An administrator can use this option to tem<hy>
porarily stop receiving further messages about a known problem. Once the form has been mounted and then un<hy>
mounted, messages will again be sent when the number of print requests reaches the threshold requests.
No messages will be sent after the -A none option is used until the -A option is given again with a different alert-
type. This can be used to permanently stop further messages from being sent as any existing alert definition for the
form will be removed.
See largefile(5) for the description of the behavior of lpforms when encountering files greater than or equal to 2
Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
The following exit values are returned:
0 Successful completion.
non-zero An error occurred.
/etc/lp/alerts/form Fault handler for lpform.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
psu
lp(1), lpstat(1), lpadmin(1M), terminfo(4), attributes(5), largefile(5)

