<beginning of page>
lpusers <-> set printing queue priorities
lpusers -d priority-level
lpusers -q priority-level -u login-ID-list
lpusers -u login-ID-list
lpusers -q priority-level
lpusers -l
The lpusers command sets limits to the queue priority level that can be assigned to jobs submitted by users of the
LP print service.
The first form of the command (with -d) sets the system-wide priority default to priority-level, where priority-level
is a value of 0 to 39, with 0 being the highest priority. If a user does not specify a priority level with a print request
(see lp(1)), the default priority level is used. Initially, the default priority level is 20.
The second form of the command (with -q and -u) sets the default highest priority-level (0-39) that the users in lo<hy>
gin-ID-list can request when submitting a print request. The login-ID-list argument may include any or all of the
following constructs:
login-ID A user on any system
system_name!login-ID A user on the system system_name
system_name!all All users on system system_name
all!login-ID A user on all systems
all All users on all systems
Users that have been given a limit cannot submit a print request with a higher priority level than the one assigned,
nor can they change a request that has already been submitted to have a higher priority. Any print requests submitted
with priority levels higher than allowed will be given the highest priority allowed.
The third form of the command (with -u) removes any explicit priority level for the specified users.
The fourth form of the command (with -q) sets the default highest priority level for all users not explicitly covered
by the use of the second form of this command.
The last form of the command (with -l) lists the default priority level and the priority limits assigned to users.
The following options are supported:
-d priority-level
Set the system-wide priority default to priority-level.
-l
List the default priority level and the priority limits assigned to users.
-q priority-level
Set the default highest priority level for all users not explicitly covered.
<beginning of page>
-q priority-level -u login-ID-list
Set the default highest priority-level that the users in login-ID-list can request when submitting a print request.
-u login-ID-list
Remove any explicit priority level for the specified users.
The following exit values are returned:
0 Successful completion.
non-zero An error occurred.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
psu
lp(1), attributes(5)
