<beginning of page>
metaimport <-> imports disk sets into existing Solaris Volume Manager configurations
metaimport -s setname [-n] [-f] [-v] [disks]...
metaimport -r [-v] [disks]...
metaimport -V
metaimport -?
The metaimport command allows the importing of disk sets, including replicated disk sets, into an existing Solaris
Volume Manager configuration. Replicated disk sets are disk sets created using remote replication software.
The default Solaris Volume Manager configuration specifies a maximum number of disk sets that can be configured.
The metaimport command fails if importing the disk set would result in exceeding the number of disk sets config<hy>
ured on the system. To increase the number of disk sets allowed on a system, see the .
Use metaset(1M) or metastat(1M) to view the configuration of the imported set.
You must run metaimport as root.
metaimport requires a functional Solaris Volume Manager configuration before it runs.
The following options are supported:
-f Force the import, even if a quorum of replicas from the imported disk set is not available. This option could result
in corrupt configurations and should only be used when metaimport fails with the "Insufficient quorum detected;
exiting" error. If only a partial disk set is available, this option might be necessary to successfully import. Some or
all data could be corrupted or unavailable when importing a partial set or a set lacking a replica quorum.
-n Does not actually perform the operation, but shows the output or errors that would have resulted from the opera<hy>
tion, had it been run.
-r Report on the non-configured disk sets found on the system. If no disk device or LUN is specified, metaimport
reports on all non-configured disk sets attached to the system. When the name of one disk is specified, metaimport
reports on the disk set (or virtual LUN) containing the specified disk. If two or more disks are specified, metaimport
reports on the set (or sets, if they belong to different disk sets) containing the specified disks. If two or more disks
are specified, metaimport reports on the set (or sets, if they belong to different disk sets) containing the specified
disks.
This option can be used in conjunction with the -v option to give verbose output on each disk set reported.
-s setname Specify the disk set name to use when importing. The imported disk set will be called setname, without
regard to the name it may have had on a different system.
-v Verbose. Provides detailed information about the metadb replica location and status. It also provides detailed in<hy>
formation about the disk set configuration and status similar to the "metastat -c" output.
-V Version information.
-? Display a help message.
Example 1 Importing a Disk Set
The following example creates a disk set called blue and identifies c1t5d0 as a disk containing a state database repli<hy>
ca from the disk set being imported.
 # metaimport -s blue c1t5d0
<beginning of page>
Example 2 Reporting Disk Sets to Import
The following example scans all disks and LUNs attached to the system and configured as part of the system. It
scans for disks that could be part of a disk set to be imported. Components that are already part of the Solaris Vol<hy>
ume Manager configuration are ignored.
This use of metaimport provides suggested forms of the metaimport command to use to actually import the disk
sets that have been found. You can specify a component on the command line to reduce the scope of the scan and
generate results more quickly.
  # metaimport -r
0 Successful completion.
>0 An error occurred.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wmdu _ Interface StabilityStable
mdmonitord(1M), metaclear(1M), metadb(1M), metadetach(1M), metahs(1M), metainit(1M), metaoffline(1M),
metaonline(1M), metaparam(1M), metarecover(1M), metareplace(1M), metaroot(1M), metaset(1M), metas<hy>
tat(1M), metasync(1M), metattach(1M), md.tab(4), md.cf(4), mddb.cf(4), attributes(5)

