<beginning of page>
mkstemp, mkstemps, mkdtemp <-> make a unique file name from a template and open the file
#include <stdlib.h>
int mkstemp(char *template);
int mkstemps(char *template, int slen);
char *mkdtemp(char *template);
The mkstemp() function replaces the contents of the string pointed to by template by a unique file name, and returns
a file descriptor for the file open for reading and writing. The function thus prevents any possible race condition be<hy>
tween testing whether the file exists and opening it for use. The string in template should look like a file name with
six trailing 'X's; mkstemp() replaces each 'X' with a character from the portable file name character set. The char<hy>
acters are chosen such that the resulting name does not duplicate the name of an existing file.
The mkstemps() function behaves the same as mkstemp(), except it permits a suffix to exist in the template. The
template should be of the form /tmp/tmpXXXXXXsuffix. The slen parameter specifies the length of the suffix string.
The mkdtemp() function makes the same replacement to the template as in mktemp(3C) and creates the template
directory using mkdir(2), passing a mode argument of 0700.
Upon successful completion, mkstemp() returns an open file descriptor. Otherwise <mi>1 is returned if no suitable file
could be created.
The mkstemp(), mkstemps(), and mkdtemp() functions can set errno to the same values as lstat(2).
The mkstemp() and mkstemps() functions can set errno to the same values as open(2).
The mkdtemp() function can set errno to the same values as mkdir(2).
It is possible to run out of letters.
The mkstemp() function does not check to determine whether the file name part of template exceeds the maximum
allowable file name length.
The tmpfile(3C) function is preferred over this function.
The mkstemp() function is frequently used to create a temporary file that will be removed by the application before
the application terminates.
The mkstemp() function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file offsets. See lf64(5).
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ Interface Stability<hy>
See below.
The mkstemp() function is Standard. The mkstemps() and mkdtemp() functions are Stable.
getpid(2), lstat(2), mkdir(2), open(2), tmpfile(3C), mktemp(3C), attributes(5), lf64(5), standards(5)
