<beginning of page>
mt <-> magnetic tape control
mt [-f tapename] command... [count]
The mt utility sends commands to a magnetic tape drive. If -f tapename is not specified, the environment variable
TAPE is used. If TAPE does not exist, mt uses the device /dev/rmt/0n.
The following options are supported:
-f tapename Specifies the raw tape device.
The following operands are supported:
count The number of times that the requested operation is to be performed. By default, mt performs command once.
Multiple operations of command can be performed by specifying count.
command The following available commands that can be sent to a magnetic tape drive are supported. Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command need be specified.
asf Specifies absolute space to count file number. This is equivalent to a rewind followed by a fsf count.
bsf Back spaces over count EOF marks. The tape is positioned on the beginning-of-tape side of the EOF mark.
bsr Back spaces count records.
bssf Back spaces over the requested number of sequential file marks. Sequential file marks are where the file marks
are one right after the other with no other blocks of any kind between the file marks. The number argument specifies
how many sequential file marks to which to space. For example, bssf 4 searches backwards to the first place where
there are 4 sequential file marks and positions to the BOP side of the 4th file mark.
This command is not supported by all drives.
eof
weof Writes count EOF marks at the current position on the tape.
fsf Forward spaces over count EOF marks. The tape is positioned on the first block of the file.
fsr Forward spaces count records.
fssf Forward spaces the over requested number of sequential file marks. Sequential file marks are where the file
marks are one right after the other with no other blocks of any kind between the file marks. The number argument
specifies how many sequential file marks to which to space. For example, fssf 4 searches forwards to the first place
where there are 4 sequential file marks and positions after the 4th file mark.
This command is not supported by all drives.
load Requests drive load and thread current media. Not supported by all drives.
lock Prevents media removal.
nbsf Back spaces count files. The tape is positioned on the first block of the file. This is equivalent to count+1 bsfs
ollowed by one fsf.
<beginning of page>
seek Positions to requested logical tape position.
tell Gets and prints current logical tape position.
unlock Allows media removal.
If count is specified with any of the following commands, the count is ignored and the command is performed only
once.
config Reads the drives current configuration from the driver and displays it in st.conf format. See st(7D) for defini<hy>
tion of fields and there meanings.
eom Spaces to the end of recorded media on the tape. This is useful for appending files onto previously written
tapes.
erase Erases the entire tape.
Some tape drives have option settings where only portions of the tape can be erased. Be sure to select the correct set<hy>
ting to erase the whole tape. Erasing a tape can take a long time depending on the device and/or tape. Refer to the
device specific manual for time details.
forcereserve Attempts to break a SCSI II reserve issued by another initiator. When this command completes, the
drive is not reserved for the current initiator, but is available for use. This command can be only be executed by
those with super-user privileges.
offline
rewoffl Rewinds the tape and, if appropriate, takes the drive unit off-line by unloading the tape.
release Re-establishes the default behavior of releasing at close.
reserve Allows the tape drive to remain reserved after closing the device. The drive must then be explicitly released.
retension Rewinds the cartridge tape completely, then winds it forward to the end of the reel and back to beginning-
of-tape to smooth out tape tension.
rewind Rewinds the tape.
status Prints status information about the tape unit.
Status information can include the sense key reported by the drive, the residual and retries for the last operation, the
current tape position reported in file number, and the number of blocks from the beginning of that file. It might also
report that WORM media is loaded in that drive.
0 All operations were successful.
1 Command was unrecognized or mt was unable to open the specified tape drive.
2 An operation failed.
/dev/rmt/* magnetic tape interface
<beginning of page>
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ Availability<hy>
SUNWcsu
tar(1), tcopy(1), ar.h(3HEAD), attributes(5), mtio(7I), st(7D)
Not all devices support all options. Some options are hardware-dependent. Refer to the corresponding device manual
page.
mt is architecture sensitive. Heterogeneous operation (that is, SPARC to x86 or the reverse) is not supported.
