<beginning of page>
ndmp <-> configuration properties for Solaris Network Data Management Protocol (NDMP) server
The behavior of the Solaris NDMP server is specified by property values that are stored in the Service Management
Facility, smf(5).
An authorized user can use the ndmpadm(1M) command to set global values for these properties in SMF.
You can set the following properties by using the ndmpadm set command:
backup-quarantine Backup the files marked as quarantined by AV. Acceptable values are yes or no. The default is
no.
dar-support Set the Direct Access Recovery mode. Acceptable values are yes or no. The default is no.
debug-level Set the debug level. The debug-level can be set to either 0 (off) or 1 (on). The default is 0.
debug-path The path to which to save the debug log. The default is /var/ndmp.
dump-pathnode Enable or disable backing up the directories containing modified files or directories in dump(1)
backup format. Acceptable values are yes or no. The default is no.
ignore-ctime Determines whether the change timestamp (ctime) of files and directories is used to determine
whether a file should be backed up in level backup. If this parameter is set to yes, only the modification time
(mtime) of the file or directory determines whether it should be backed up. Acceptable values are yes or no. The de<hy>
fault value is no.
overwrite-quarantine Restore quarantined files on top of current files if they already exist. Acceptable values are
yes or no. The default value is no.
restore-quarantine Restore the files that had been marked as quarantined by AV and are backed up. Acceptable val<hy>
ues are yes or no. The default value is no.
tar-pathnode Enable or disable backing up the directories containing modified files or directories in tar(1) backup
format. Acceptable values are yes or no. The default value is no.
token-maxseq Set the maximum sequence number for subsequent token-based incremental backup in NDMP-V4.
The default value is 9. There are two limits for this value: soft-limit, which is 59, and hard-limit, equal to 64. If the
token sequence number, passed by the DMA, is between the soft and hard limits, a warning message is issued to the
DMA. The token sequence number can never exceed the hard-limit value.
version Set the maximum active NDMP protocol version. Valid values are currently 2, 3, and 4. The default is 4.
The following property can only be set when using the ndmpadm enable or ndmpadm disable command:
auth-type Sets the password encryption type for the authentication of local users. Valid values are cram-md5 or
cleartext.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wndmpu, SUNWndmpr _ Interface StabilityCommitted
<beginning of page>
dump(1), tar(1), ndmpadm(1M), ndmpd(1M), attributes(5), smf(5)
