<beginning of page>
on <-> execute a command on a remote system with the local environment
on [-i] [-d] [-n] host command [argument] ...
The on program is used to execute commands on another system, in an environment similar to that invoking the pro<hy>
gram. All environment variables are passed and the current working directory is preserved. To preserve the working
directory, the working file system must be either already mounted on the host or be exported to it. Relative path
names will only work if they are within the current file system. Absolute path names may cause problems.
The standard input is connected to the standard input of the remote command. The standard output and the standard
error from the remote command are sent to the corresponding files for the on command.
The following options are supported:
-d Debug mode. Prints out some messages as work is being done.
-i Interactive mode. Uses remote echoing and special character processing. This option is needed for programs that
expect to be talking to a terminal. All terminal modes and window size changes are propagated.
-n No Input. This option causes the remote program to get EOF when it reads from the standard input, instead of
passing the standard input from the standard input of the on program. For example, -n is necessary when running
commands in the background with job control.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wnfscu
chkey(1), rlogin(1), rsh(1), telnet(1), attributes(5)
unknown host
Host name not found.
cannot connect to server
Host down or not running the server.
can't find
Problem finding the working directory.
can't locate mount point
Problem finding current file system.
RPC: Authentication error
The server requires DES authentication and you do not have a secret key registered with keyserv. Perhaps you
logged in without a password. Try to keylogin. If that fails, try to set your publickey with chkey.
on server: RPC: can't encode arguments
The 10240 byte limit for arguments to be encoded and passed from the sending to the receiving system has been ex<hy>
ceeded.
Other diagnostic messages may be passed back from the server.
<beginning of page>
When the working directory is remote mounted over NFS, a Control-Z hangs the window.
Root cannot use on.
