<beginning of page>
parted <-> partition manipulation program
parted [options] [device [options...]...]]
parted is a disk partitioning and partition resizing program. It allows you to create, destroy, resize, move, and copy
ext2, ext3, linux-swap, FAT, FAT32, and reiserfs partitions. It can create, resize, and move Macintosh HFS parti<hy>
tions, as well as detect jfs, ntfs, ufs, and xfs partitions. It is useful for creating space for new operating systems, re<hy>
organizing disk usage, and copying data to new hard disks.
This manual page documents parted briefly. Complete parted documentation is distributed with the package in
"GNU Info" format.
parted is implemented with a set of top-level options and a set of subcommands, most of which have their own op<hy>
tions and operands. These subcommands are described below. parted has an optional operand:
device The block device to be used. When none is given, parted uses the first block device it finds.
The following options are supported:
-h, --help
Displays a help message.
-i, --interactive
Prompts for user intervention.
-l, --list
Lists partition layout on all block devices.
-m, --machine
Displays machine-parseable output.
-s, --script
Never prompts for user intervention.
-v, --version
Displays the version number.
If you omit a subcommand in a parted command line, the utility issues a command prompt.
check partition
Do a simple check on partition.
cp [source-device] source dest
Copy the source partition's filesystem on source-device (or the current device if no other device was specified) to the
dest partition on the current device.
help command
Display general help, or help on a command, if specified.
<beginning of page>
mkfs partition fs-type
Make a filesystem fs-type on partition. fs-type can be one of fat16, fat32, ext2, linux-wap, or reiserfs.
mklabel label-type
Create a new disk label (partition table) of label-type. label-type should be one of bsd, dvh, gpt, loop, mac, msdos,
pc98, or sun.
mkpart part-type [fs-type] start end
Make a part-type partition with file system fs-type (if specified), beginning at start and ending at end (by default, in
megabytes). fs-type can be one of fat16, fat32, ext2, HFS, linux-swap, NTFS, reiserfs, or ufs. part-type should be
one of primary, logical, or extended.
mkpartfs part-type fs-type start end
Make a part-type partition with file system fs-type, beginning at start and ending at end (by default, in megabytes).
move partition start end
Move partition so that it begins at start and ends at end. Note that move never changes the minor number.
name partition name
Set the name of partition to name. This option works only on Mac, PC98, and GPT disk labels. The name can be
placed in quotes, if necessary.
print
Display the partition table.
quit
Exit from parted.
rescue start end
Rescue a lost partition that was located somewhere between start and end. If a partition is found, parted will ask if
you want to create an entry for it in the partition table.
resize partition start end
Resize the file system on partition so that it begins at start and ends at end (by default, in megabytes).
rm partition
Delete partition.
select device
Choose device as the current device to edit. device should usually be a Solaris or Linux hard disk device, but it can
be a partition, software raid device, or an SVM or LVM logical volume if necessary.
set partition flag state
Change the state of the flag on partition to state. Supported flags are: boot, root, swap, hidden, raid, lvm, lba, and
palo. state should be either on or off.
<beginning of page>
unit unit
Set unit as the unit to use when displaying locations and sizes, and for interpreting those given by the user when not
suffixed with an explicit unit. unit can be one of s (sectors), B (bytes), kB, MB, GB, TB, % (percentage of device
size), cyl (cylinders), chs (cylinders, heads, sectors), or compact (megabytes for input, and a human-friendly form
for output).
version
Display version information and a copyright message.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
parted _ Interface StabilityUncommitted
fdisk(1M), mkfs(1M), attributes(5)
The parted program is fully documented in the info(1) format GNU partitioning software manual.
This manual page was written by Timshel Knoll for the Debian GNU/Linux system. It is here adapted for the Solaris
operating system.
