<beginning of page>
pipemod <-> STREAMS pipe flushing module
The typical stream is composed of a stream head connected to modules and terminated by a driver. Some stream
configurations such as pipes and FIFOs do not have a driver and hence certain features commonly supported by the
driver need to be provided by other means. Flushing is one such feature, and it is provided by the pipemod module.
Pipes and FIFOs in their simplest configurations only have stream heads. A write side is connected to a read side.
This remains true when modules are pushed. The twist occurs at a point known as the mid-point. When an
M_FLUSH message is passed from a write queue to a read queue the FLUSHR and/or FLUSHW bits have to be
switched. The mid-point of a pipe is not always easily detectable, especially if there are numerous modules pushed
on either end of the pipe. In that case there needs to be a mechanism to intercept all message passing through the
stream. If the message is an M_FLUSH message and it is at the mid-point, the flush bits need to be switched. This
bit switching is handled by the pipemod module.
pipemod should be pushed onto a pipe or FIFO where flushing of any kind will take place. The pipemod module
can be pushed on either end of the pipe. The only requirement is that it is pushed onto an end that previously did not
have modules on it. That is, pipemod must be the first module pushed onto a pipe so that it is at the mid-point of the
pipe itself.
The pipemod module handles only M_FLUSH messages. All other messages are passed on to the next module us<hy>
ing the putnext() utility routine. If an M_FLUSH message is passed to pipemod and the FLUSHR and FLUSHW
bits are set, the message is not processed but is passed to the next module using the putnext() routine. If only the
FLUSHR bit is set, the FLUSHR bit is turned off and the FLUSHW bit is set. The message is then passed on to the
next module using putnext(). Similarly, if the FLUSHW bit is the only bit set in the M_FLUSH message, the
FLUSHW bit is turned off and the FLUSHR bit is turned on. The message is then passed to the next module on the
stream.
The pipemod module can be pushed on any stream that desires the bit switching. It must be pushed onto a pipe or
FIFO if any form of flushing must take place.
STREAMS Programming Guide
