<beginning of page>
pppstats <-> print PPP statistics
pppstats [-a] [-v] [-r] [-z] [-c <count>] [-w <secs>]
 [interface]
The pppstats utility reports PPP-related statistics at regular intervals for the specified PPP interface. If the interface
is unspecified, pppstats defaults to sppp0. The display is split horizontally into input and output sections containing
columns of statistics describing the properties and volume of packets received and transmitted by the interface.
The pppstats options are:
-a Display absolute values rather than deltas. With this option, all reports show statistics for the time elapsed since
the link was initiated. Without this option, the second and subsequent reports show statistics for the time since the
last report.
-c count Repeat the display count times. If this option is not specified, the default repeat count is 1 if the -w option is
not specified, otherwise infinity.
-r Display additional statistics summarizing the compression ratio achieved by the packet compression algorithm in
use.
-v Display additional statistics relating to the performance of the Van Jacobson TCP header compression algorithm.
-w wait Pause wait seconds between each display. If this option is not specified, the default interval is five seconds.
-z Instead of the standard display, show statistics indicating the performance of the packet compression algorithm in
use.
The following fields are printed on the input side when the -z option is not used:
IN Total number of bytes received by this interface.
PACK Total number of packets received by this interface.
VJCOMP Number of header-compressed TCP packets received by this interface.
VJUNC Number of header-uncompressed TCP packets received by this interface. Not reported when the -r option is
specified.
VJERR Number of corrupted or bogus header-compressed TCP packets received by this interface. Not reported
when the -r option is specified.
VJTOSS Number of VJ header-compressed TCP packets dropped on reception by this interface because of preced<hy>
ing errors. Only reported when the -v option is specified.
NON-VJ Total number of non-TCP packets received by this interface. Only reported when the -v option is specified.
RATIO Compression ratio achieved for received packets by the packet compression scheme in use, defined as the
uncompressed size divided by the compressed size. Only reported when the -r option is specified.
UBYTE Total number of bytes received, after decompression of compressed packets. Only reported when the -r op<hy>
tion is specified.
<beginning of page>
The following fields are printed on the output side:
OUT Total number of bytes transmitted from this interface.
PACK Total number of packets transmitted from this interface.
VJCOMP Number of TCP packets transmitted from this interface with VJ-compressed TCP headers.
VJUNC Number of TCP packets transmitted from this interface with VJ-uncompressed TCP headers. Not reported
when the -r option is specified.
NON-VJ Total number of non-TCP packets transmitted from this interface. Not reported when the -r option is spec<hy>
ified.
VJSRCH Number of searches for the cached header entry for a VJ header compressed TCP packet. Only reported
when the -v option is specified.
VJMISS Number of failed searches for the cached header entry for a VJ header compressed TCP packet. Only re<hy>
ported when the -v option is specified.
RATIO Compression ratio achieved for transmitted packets by the packet compression scheme in use, defined as the
size before compression divided by the compressed size. Only reported when the -r option is specified.
UBYTE Total number of bytes to be transmitted before packet compression is applied. Only reported when the -r
option is specified.
When the -z option is specified, pppstats displays the following fields relating to the packet compression algorithm
currently in use. If packet compression is not in use, these fields display zeroes. The fields displayed on the input
side are:
COMPRESSED BYTE Number of bytes of compressed packets received.
COMPRESSED PACK Number of compressed packets received.
INCOMPRESSIBLE BYTE Number of bytes of incompressible packets (that is, those which were transmitted in
uncompressed form) received.
INCOMPRESSIBLE PACK Number of incompressible packets received.
COMP RATIO Recent compression ratio for incoming packets, defined as the uncompressed size divided by the
compressed size (including both compressible and incompressible packets).
The fields displayed on the output side are:
COMPRESSED BYTE Number of bytes of compressed packets transmitted.
COMPRESSED PACK Number of compressed packets transmitted.
<beginning of page>
INCOMPRESSIBLE BYTE Number of bytes of incompressible packets received; that is, those that were transmit<hy>
ted by the peer in uncompressed form.
INCOMPRESSIBLE PACK Number of incompressible packets transmitted.
COMP RATIO Recent compression ratio for outgoing packets.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
pppdu _ Interface StabilityEvolving
pppd(1M), attributes(5)
