<beginning of page>
preap <-> force a defunct process to be reaped by its parent
preap [-F] pid...
A defunct (or zombie) process is one whose exit status has yet to be reaped by its parent. The exit status is reaped by
way of the wait(3C), waitid(2), or waitpid(3C) system call. In the normal course of system operation, zombies can
occur, but are typically short-lived. This can happen if a parent exits without having reaped the exit status of some or
all of its children. In that case, those children are reparented to PID 1. See init(1M), which periodically reaps such
processes.
An irresponsible parent process can not exit for a very long time and thus leave zombies on the system. Since the op<hy>
erating system destroys nearly all components of a process before it becomes defunct, such defunct processes do not
normally impact system operation. However, they do consume a small amount of system memory.
preap forces the parent of the process specified by pid to waitid(3C) for pid, if pid represents a defunct process.
preap attempts to prevent the administrator from unwisely reaping a child process which might soon be reaped by
the parent, if: <bu> The process is a child of init(1M). <bu> The parent process is stopped and might wait on the child when
it is again allowed to run. <bu> The process has been defunct for less than one minute.
The following option is supported:
-F Forces the parent to reap the child, overriding safety checks.
The following operand is supported:
pid Process ID list.
Caution should be exercised when using the -F flag. Imposing two controlling processes on one victim process can
lead to chaos. Safety is assured only if the primary controlling process, typically a debugger, has stopped the victim
process and the primary controlling process is doing nothing at the moment of application of the proc tool in ques<hy>
tion.
The following exit values are returned by preap, which prints the exit status of each target process reaped:
0 Successfully operation.
non-zero Failure, such as no such process, permission denied, or invalid option.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wesu (32-bit) SUNWesxu (64-bit)
proc(1), init(1M), waitid(2), wait(3C), waitpid(3C), proc(4), attributes(5)
preap should be applied sparingly and only in situations in which the administrator or developer has confirmed that
defunct processes are not reaped by the parent process. Otherwise, applying preap can damage the parent process in
unpredictable ways.
