<beginning of page>
printmgr <-> Solaris Print Manager is a graphical user interface for managing printers in a network
/usr/sadm/admin/bin/printmgr
Solaris Print Manager is a Java-based graphical user interface that enables you to manage local and remote printer
access. This tool can be used in the following name service environments: LDAP, NIS, NIS+, and files. You must be
logged in as superuser to use this tool.
Using Solaris Printer Manager is the preferred method for managing printer access because Solaris Print Manager
centralizes printer information when it is used in a name service environment.
Adding printer information to a name service makes access to printers available to all systems on the network and
generally makes printer administration easier because all the information about printers is centralized.
Solaris Print Manager may be run on a remote system with the display sent to the local system. See the System Ad<hy>
ministration Guide: Solaris Printing for instructions on setting the DISPLAY environment variable.
Using Solaris Print Manager to perform printer-related tasks automatically updates the appropriate printer databases.
Solaris Print Manager also includes a command-line console that displays the lp command line for the add, modify,
and delete printer operations. Errors and warnings may also be displayed when Printer Manager operations are per<hy>
formed.
Help is available by clicking the Help button.
Solaris Print Manager enables you to do the following tasks:
Select a Name Service Select a name service for retrieving or changing printer information.
Add Access to a Printer Add printer access on a printer client using Solaris Print Manager.
Add an Attached Printer After physically attaching the printer to a system, use Solaris Print Manager to install a
local printer and make it available for printing.
Add a Network Printer After physically attaching the printer to a system, use Solaris Print Manager to install a lo<hy>
cal printer and make it available for printing.
Modify Printer Properties After adding access to a printer or adding an attached or network printer, you can modi<hy>
fy certain printer attributes.
Delete a Printer Delete access to a printer from the print client or delete a printer from the print server or from the
name service environment.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
ppm
ldap(1), lpget(1M), lpset(1M), attributes(5)
System Administration Guide: Solaris Printing for information on LDAP server replication.
Although users can use the LDAP command line utilities ldapadd(1) and ldapmodify(1)to update printer entries in
the directory, the preferred method is to use lpset. Otherwise, if the lpadd and lpmodify utilities are used, the ad<hy>
ministrator must ensure that the printer-name attribute value is unique within the ou=printers container on the
LDAP server. If the value is not unique, the result of modifications done using lpset or the Solaris Print Manager,
printmgr may be unpredictable.
