<beginning of page>
prstat <-> report active process statistics
prstat [-acHJLmRrtTv] [-d u | d] [-C psrsetlist] [-h lgrplist]
 [-j projlist] [-k tasklist] [-n ntop[,nbottom]]
 [-p pidlist] [-P cpulist] [-s key | -S key ]
 [-u euidlist] [-U uidlist] [-z zoneidlist] [-Z]
 [interval [count]]
The prstat utility iteratively examines all active processes on the system and reports statistics based on the selected
output mode and sort order. prstat provides options to examine only processes matching specified PIDs, UIDs, zone
IDs, CPU IDs, and processor set IDs.
The -j, -k, -C, -p, -P, -u, -U, and -z options accept lists as arguments. Items in a list can be either separated by com<hy>
mas or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
If you do not specify an option, prstat examines all processes and reports statistics sorted by CPU usage.
The following options are supported:
-a
Report information about processes and users. In this mode prstat displays separate reports about processes and
users at the same time.
-c
Print new reports below previous reports instead of overprinting them.
-C psrsetlist
Report only processes or lwps that are bound to processor sets in the given list. Each processor set is identified by an
integer as reported by psrset(1M). The load averages displayed are the sum of the load averages of the specified pro<hy>
cessor sets (see pset_getloadavg(3C)). Processes with one or more LWPs bound to processor sets in the given list
are reported even when the -L option is not used.
-d u | d
Specify u for a printed representation of the internal representation of time. See time(2). Specify d for standard date
format. See date(1).
-h lgrplist
Report only processes or lwps whose home lgroup is in the given list of lgroups. No processes or lwps will be listed
for invalid lgroups.
-H
Report information about home lgroup. In this mode, prstat adds an extra column showing process or lwps home
lgroup with the header LGRP.
-j projlist
Report only processes or lwps whose project ID is in the given list. Each project ID can be specified as either a
project name or a numerical project ID. See project(4).
-J
Report information about processes and projects. In this mode prstat displays separate reports about processes and
projects at the same time.
<beginning of page>
-k tasklist
Report only processes or lwps whose task ID is in tasklist.
-L
Report statistics for each light-weight process (LWP). By default, prstat reports only the number of LWPs for each
process.
-m
Report microstate process accounting information. In addition to all fields listed in -v mode, this mode also includes
the percentage of time the process has spent processing system traps, text page faults, data page faults, waiting for
user locks and waiting for CPU (latency time).
-n ntop[,nbottom]
Restrict number of output lines. The ntop argument determines how many lines of process or lwp statistics are re<hy>
ported, and the nbottom argument determines how many lines of user, task, or projects statistics are reported if the
-a, -t, -T, or -J options are specified. By default, prstat displays as many lines of output that fit in a window or ter<hy>
minal. When you specify the -c option or direct the output to a file, the default values for ntop and nbottom are 15
and 5.
-p pidlist
Report only processes whose process ID is in the given list.
-P cpulist
Report only processes or lwps which have most recently executed on a CPU in the given list. Each CPU is identified
by an integer as reported by psrinfo(1M).
-R
Put prstat in the real time scheduling class. When this option is used, prstat is given priority over time-sharing and
interactive processes. This option is available only for superuser.
-r
Disable lookups for user names and project names. (Note that this does not apply to lookups for the -j, -u, or -U op<hy>
tions.)
-s key
Sort output lines (that is, processes, lwps, or users) by key in descending order. Only one key can be used as an argu<hy>
ment.
There are five possible key values:
cpu
Sort by process CPU usage. This is the default.
pri
Sort by process priority.
rss
Sort by resident set size.
<beginning of page>
size
Sort by size of process image.
time
Sort by process execution time.
-S key
Sort output lines by key in ascending order. Possible key values are the same as for the -s option. See -s.
-t
Report total usage summary for each user. The summary includes the total number of processes or LWPs owned by
the user, total size of process images, total resident set size, total cpu time, and percentages of recent cpu time and
system memory.
-T
Report information about processes and tasks. In this mode prstat displays separate reports about processes and
tasks at the same time.
-u euidlist
Report only processes whose effective user ID is in the given list. Each user ID may be specified as either a login
name or a numerical user ID.
-U uidlist
Report only processes whose real user ID is in the given list. Each user ID may be specified as either a login name
or a numerical user ID.
-v
Report verbose process usage. This output format includes the percentage of time the process has spent in user
mode, in system mode, and sleeping. It also includes the number of voluntary and involuntary context switches, sys<hy>
tem calls and the number of signals received. Statistics that are not reported are marked with the - sign.
-z zoneidlist
Report only processes or LWPs whose zone ID is in the given list. Each zone ID can be specified as either a zone
name or a numerical zone ID. See zones(5).
-Z
Report information about processes and zones. In this mode, prstat displays separate reports about processes and
zones at the same time.
The following list defines the column headings and the meanings of a prstat report:
PID
The process ID of the process.
USERNAME
The real user (login) name or real user ID.
<beginning of page>
SWAP
The total virtual memory size of the process, including all mapped files and devices, in kilobytes (K), megabytes
(M), or gigabytes (G).
RSS
The resident set size of the process (RSS), in kilobytes (K), megabytes (M), or gigabytes (G). The RSS value is an
estimate provided by proc(4) that might underestimate the actual resident set size. Users who want to get more accu<hy>
rate usage information for capacity planning should use the -x option to pmap(1) instead.
STATE
The state of the process:
cpuN
Process is running on CPU N.
sleep
Sleeping: process is waiting for an event to complete.
wait
Waiting: process is waiting for CPU usage to drop to the CPU-caps enforced limits. See the description of CPU-
caps in resource_controls(5).
run
Runnable: process in on run queue.
zombie
Zombie state: process terminated and parent not waiting.
stop
Process is stopped.
PRI
The priority of the process. Larger numbers mean higher priority.
NICE
Nice value used in priority computation. Only processes in certain scheduling classes have a nice value.
TIME
The cumulative execution time for the process.
CPU
The percentage of recent CPU time used by the process. If executing in a non-global zone and the pools facility is
active, the percentage will be that of the processors in the processor set in use by the pool to which the zone is
bound.
<beginning of page>
PROCESS
The name of the process (name of executed file).
LWPID
The lwp ID of the lwp being reported.
NLWP
The number of lwps in the process.
With the some options, in addition to a number of the column headings shown above, there are:
NPROC
Number of processes in a specified collection.
MEMORY
Percentage of memory used by a specified collection of processes.
The following columns are displayed when the -v or -m option is specified
USR
The percentage of time the process has spent in user mode.
SYS
The percentage of time the process has spent in system mode.
TRP
The percentage of time the process has spent in processing system traps.
TFL
The percentage of time the process has spent processing text page faults.
DFL
The percentage of time the process has spent processing data page faults.
LCK
The percentage of time the process has spent waiting for user locks.
SLP
The percentage of time the process has spent sleeping.
LAT
The percentage of time the process has spent waiting for CPU.
<beginning of page>
VCX
The number of voluntary context switches.
ICX
The number of involuntary context switches.
SCL
The number of system calls.
SIG
The number of signals received.
Under the -L option, one line is printed for each lwp in the process and some reporting fields show the values for the
lwp, not the process.
The following column is displayed when the -H option is specified:
LGRP
The home lgroup of the process or lwp.
The following operands are supported:
count
Specifies the number of times that the statistics are repeated. By default, prstat reports statistics until a termination
signal is received.
interval
Specifies the sampling interval in seconds; the default interval is 5 seconds.
Example 1 Reporting the Five Most Active Super-User Processes
The following command reports the five most active super-user processes running on CPU1 and CPU2:
 example% prstat -u root -n 5 -P 1,2 1 1
 PID USERNAME SWAP RSS STATE PRI NICE TIME CPU PROCESS/LWP
  306 root 3024K 1448K sleep 58 0 0:00.00 0.3% sendmail/1
  102 root 1600K 592K sleep 59 0 0:00.00 0.1% in.rdisc/1
  250 root 1000K 552K sleep 58 0 0:00.00 0.0% utmpd/1
  288 root 1720K 1032K sleep 58 0 0:00.00 0.0% sac/1
  1 root 744K 168K sleep 58 0 0:00.00 0.0% init/1
 TOTAL: 25, load averages: 0.05, 0.08, 0.12
Example 2 Displaying Verbose Process Usage Information
The following command displays verbose process usage information about processes with lowest resident set sizes
owned by users root and john.
 example% prstat -S rss -n 5 -vc -u root,john
  PID USERNAME USR SYS TRP TFL DFL LCK SLP LAT VCX ICX SCL SIG PROCESS/LWP
  1 root 0.0 0.0 - - - - 100 - 0 0 0 0 init/1
  102 root 0.0 0.0 - - - - 100 - 0 0 3 0 in.rdisc/1
<beginning of page>
  250 root 0.0 0.0 - - - - 100 - 0 0 0 0 utmpd/1
 1185 john 0.0 0.0 - - - - 100 - 0 0 0 0 csh/1
  240 root 0.0 0.0 - - - - 100 - 0 0 0 0 powerd/4
  TOTAL: 71, load averages: 0.02, 0.04, 0.08
The following exit values are returned:
0
Successful completion.
1
An error occurred.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
date(1), lgrpinfo(1), plgrp(1), proc(1), ps(1), time(2), psrinfo(1M), psrset(1M), sar(1M), pset_getloadavg(3C),
proc(4), project(4), attributes(5), resource_controls(5), zones(5)
The snapshot of system usage displayed by prstat is true only for a split-second, and it may not be accurate by the
time it is displayed. When the -m option is specified, prstat tries to turn on microstate accounting for each process;
the original state is restored when prstat exits. See proc(4) for additional information about the microstate account<hy>
ing facility.
The total memory size reported in the SWAP and RSS columns for groups of processes can sometimes overestimate
the actual amount of memory used by processes with shared memory segments.
