<beginning of page>
putdgrp <-> edits device group table
putdgrp [-d] dgroup [device]...
putdgrp modifies the device group table. It performs two kinds of modification. It can modify the table by creating
a new device group or removing a device group. It can also change group definitions by adding or removing a de<hy>
vice from the group definition.
When the command is invoked with only a dgroup specification, the command adds the specified group name to the
device group table if it does not already exist. If the -d option is also used with only the dgroup specification, the
command deletes the group from the table.
When the command is invoked with both a dgroup and a device specification, it adds the given device name(s) to the
group definition. When invoked with both arguments and the -d option, the command deletes the device name(s)
from the group definition.
When the command is invoked with both a dgroup and a device specification and the device group does not exist, it
creates the group and adds the specified devices to that new group.
The following options are supported:
-d Delete the group or, if used with device, delete the device from a group definition.
The following operands are supported:
dgroup Specify a device group name.
device Specify the pathname or alias of the device that is to be added to, or deleted from, the device group.
The following exit values are returned:
0 Successful completion.
1 Command syntax was incorrect, an invalid option was used, or an internal error occurred.
2 Device group table could not be opened for reading or a new device group table could not be created.
3 If executed with the -d option, indicates that an entry in the device group table for the device group dgroup does
not exist and so cannot be deleted. Otherwise, indicates that the device group dgroup already exists and cannot be
added.
4 If executed with the -d option, indicates that the device group dgroup does not have as members one or more of
the specified devices. Otherwise, indicates that the device group dgroup already has one or more of the specified de<hy>
vices as members.
Example 1 Adding a new device group.
The following example adds a new device group:
 example# putdgrp floppies
Example 2 Adding a device to a device group.
The following example adds a device to a device group:
 example# putdgrp floppies diskette2
<beginning of page>
Example 3 Deleting a device group.
The following example deletes a device group:
 example# putdgrp -d floppies
Example 4 Deleting a device from a device group.
The following example deletes a device from a device group:
 example# putdgrp -d floppies diskette2
/etc/dgroup.tab
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
listdgrp(1M), putdev(1M), attributes(5)
