<beginning of page>
rndc.conf <-> rndc configuration file
rndc.conf
rndc.conf is the configuration file for rndc, the BIND 9 name server control utility. This file has a similar structure
and syntax to named.conf. Statements are enclosed in braces and terminated with a semi-colon. Clauses in the state<hy>
ments are also semi-colon terminated. The usual comment styles are supported:
C style /* */
C++ style // to end of line
Unix style # to end of line
rndc.conf is much simpler than named.conf. The file uses three statements: an options statement, a server statement
and a key statement.
The options statement contains three clauses. The default-server clause is followed by the name or address of a
name server. This host is used when no name server is provided as an argument to rndc. The default-key clause is
followed by the name of a key which is identified by a key statement. If no keyid is provided on the rndc command
line, and no key clause is found in a matching server statement, this default key will be used to authenticate the
server's commands and responses. The default-port clause is followed by the port to connect to on the remote name
server. If no port option is provided on the rndc command line, and no port clause is found in a matching server
statement, this default port will be used to connect.
After the server keyword, the server statement includes a string which is the hostname or address for a name server.
The statement has two possible clauses: key and port. The key name must match the name of a key statement in the
file. The port number specifies the port to connect to.
The key statement begins with an identifying string, the name of the key. The statement has two clauses. algorithm
identifies the encryption algorithm for rndc to use; currently only HMAC-MD5 is supported. This is followed by a
secret clause which contains the base-64 encoding of the algorithm's encryption key. The base-64 string is enclosed
in double quotes.
There are two common ways to generate the base-64 string for the secret. The BIND 9 program rndc-confgen(1M)
can be used to generate a random key, or the mmencode program, also known as mimencode, can be used to gener<hy>
ate a base-64 string from known input. mmencode does not ship with BIND 9 but is available on many systems. See
the EXAMPLES section for sample command lines for each.
 options {
  default-server localhost;
  default-key samplekey;
 };
 server localhost {
  key samplekey;
 };
 key samplekey {
  algorithm hmac-md5;
  secret
  "c3Ryb25nIGVub3VnaCBmb3IgYSBtYW4gYnV0IG1hZGUgZm9yIGEgd29tYW4K";
 };
In the above example, rndc by default uses the server at localhost (127.0.0.1) and the key called samplekey. Com<hy>
mands to the localhost server use the samplekey key, which must also be defined in the server's configuration file
with the same name and secret. The key statement indicates that samplekey uses the HMAC-MD5 algorithm. Its se<hy>
cret clause contains the base-64 encoding of the HMAC-MD5 secret enclosed in double quotes.
To generate a random secret with rndc-confgen:
<beginning of page>
 rndc-confgen
A complete rndc.conf file, including the randomly generated key, will be written to the standard output. Commented
out key and controls statements for named.conf are also printed.
To generate a base-64 secret with mmencode:
 echo "known plaintext for a secret" | mmencode
The name server must be configured to accept rndc connections and to recognize the key specified in the rndc.conf
file, using the controls statement in named.conf. See the sections on the controls statement in the BIND 9 Adminis<hy>
trator Reference Manual for details.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wbind _ Interface StabilityExternal
rndc(1M), rndc-confgen(1M), attributes(5)
BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual
