<beginning of page>
savecore <-> save a crash dump of the operating system
/usr/bin/savecore [-Lvd] [-f dumpfile] [directory]
The savecore utility saves a crash dump of the kernel (assuming that one was made) and writes a reboot message in
the shutdown log. It is invoked by the dumpadm service each time the system boots.
savecore saves the crash dump data in the file directory/vmcore.n and the kernel's namelist in directory/unix.n. The
trailing .n in the pathnames is replaced by a number which grows every time savecore is run in that directory.
Before writing out a crash dump, savecore reads a number from the file directory/minfree. This is the minimum
number of kilobytes that must remain free on the file system containing directory. If after saving the crash dump the
file system containing directory would have less free space the number of kilobytes specified in minfree, the crash
dump is not saved. if the minfree file does not exist, savecore assumes a minfree value of 1 megabyte.
The savecore utility also logs a reboot message using facility LOG_AUTH (see syslog(3C)). If the system crashed
as a result of a panic, savecore logs the panic string too.
The following options are supported:
-d Disregard dump header valid flag. Force savecore to attempt to save a crash dump even if the header information
stored on the dump device indicates the dump has already been saved.
-f dumpfile Attempt to save a crash dump from the specified file instead of from the system's current dump device.
This option may be useful if the information stored on the dump device has been copied to an on-disk file by means
of the dd(1M) command.
-L Save a crash dump of the live running Solaris system, without actually rebooting or altering the system in any
way. This option forces savecore to save a live snapshot of the system to the dump device, and then immediately to
retrieve the data and to write it out to a new set of crash dump files in the specified directory. Live system crash
dumps can only be performed if you have configured your system to have a dedicated dump device using
dumpadm(1M).
savecore -L does not suspend the system, so the contents of memory continue to change while the dump is saved.
This means that live crash dumps are not fully self-consistent.
-v Verbose. Enables verbose error messages from savecore.
The following operands are supported:
directory Save the crash dump files to the specified directory. If directory is not specified, savecore saves the crash
dump files to the default savecore directory, configured by dumpadm(1M).
directory/vmcore.n
directory/unix.n
directory/bounds
directory/minfree
/var/crash/'uname -n' default crash dump directory
<beginning of page>
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu
adb(1), mdb(1), svcs(1), dd(1M), dumpadm(1M), svcadm(1M), syslog(3C), attributes(5), smf(5)
The system crash dump service is managed by the service management facility, smf(5), under the service identifier:
 svc:/system/dumpadm:default
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using sv<hy>
cadm(1M). The service's status can be queried using the svcs(1) command.
If the dump device is also being used as a swap device, you must run savecore very soon after booting, before the
swap space containing the crash dump is overwritten by programs currently running.
