<beginning of page>
scadm <-> administer System Controller (SC)
/usr/platform/platform-name/sbin/scadm subcommand [option]
 [argument]...
The scadm utility administers the System Controller (SC). This utility allows the host server to interact with the SC.
The scadm utility must be run as root.
The interface, output, and location in the directory hierarchy for scadm are uncommitted and might change.
platform-name is the name of the platform implementation. Use the uname -i command to identify the platform im<hy>
plementation. See uname(1).
The scadm utility has a number of subcommands. Some subcommands have specific options and arguments associ<hy>
ated with them. See SUBCOMMANDS, OPTIONS, OPERANDS, and USAGE.
Subcommands immediately follow the scadm command on the command line, and are separated from the command
by a SPACE.
The following subcommands are supported
consolehistory
Display the SC's console log. The SC maintains a running log which captures all console output. This log is main<hy>
tained as a first-in, first-out buffer: New console output may displace old console output if the buffer is full. By de<hy>
fault, only the last eight kilobytes of the console log file are displayed.
The optional -a argument specifies that the entire console log file be displayed.
It is possible for the SC to fill this log more quickly than the consolehistory subcommand can read it. This means
that it is possible for some log data to be lost before it can be displayed. If this happens, the consolehistory subcom<hy>
mand displays "scadm: lost <number> bytes of console log data" in the log output, to indicate that some data was
lost.
The format for the consolehistory subcommand is:
 scadm consolehistory [-a]
The consolehistory subcommand is not available on all platforms. If this command is used on a platform that does
not support it, scadm prints this message:
 scadm: command/option not supported
and exit with non-zero status.
date
Display the SC's time and date
The format for the date subcommand is:
 scadm date
download
Program the SC's firmware.
There are two parts to the firmware, the boot monitor and the main image.
By default, The scadm command's download programs the main firmware image. The boot argument selects pro<hy>
gramming of the boot monitor.
<beginning of page>
The format for the download subcommand is:
 scadm download [boot] file
fruhistory
Display the contents of the "field replacable unit" log maintained by the SC. By default, only the last eight kilobytes
of the fru history log file are displayed. The data in contained this log contains snapshots of the SC's "showfru"
command, taken whenever the system is reset, or a hot-plug event is detected by the SC.
The optional -a argument specifies that the entire fru log file be displayed.
It is possible for the SC to fill this log more quickly than the fruhistory subcommand can read it. This means that it
is possible for some log data to be lost before it can be displayed. If this happens, the fruhistory subcommand dis<hy>
plays "scadm: lost <number> bytes of fru log data" in the log output, to indicate that some data was lost.
The format for the fruhistory subcommand is:
 scadm fruhistory [-a]
The fruhistory subcommand is not available on all platforms. If this command is used on a platform which does not
support it, scadm prints this message:
 scadm: command/option not supported
and exit with non-zero status.
help
Display a list of commands.
The format for the help subcommand is:
 scadm help
loghistory
Display the most recent entries in the SC event log. The optional -a argument causes the entire event log history to
be displayed. The -a argument is available only on platforms which support large log files. On platforms which do
not support large log files, this flag has no additional effect.
It is possible for the SC to fill this log more quickly than the loghistory subcommand can read it. This means that it
is possible for some log data to be lost before it can be displayed. If this happens, the loghistory subcommand dis<hy>
plays "scadm: lost <number> events" in the log output, to indicate that some data was lost.
The format for the loghistory subcommand is:
 scadm loghistory [-a]
resetrsc
Reset the SC. There are two types of resets allowed, a hard reset and a soft reset.The hard reset is done by default.
The soft reset can be selected by using the -s option.
The format for the resetrsc subcommand is:
<beginning of page>
 scadm resetrsc [-s]
send_event
Manually send a text based event. The SC can forward the event to the SC event log. You can configure the -c option
to send a critical warning to email, alert to logged in SC users, and syslog. Critical events are logged to syslog(3C).
There is an 80 character limit to the length of the associated text message.
The format for the send_event subcommand is:
 scadm send_event [-c] "message"
set
Set SC configuration variables to a value.
Examples of SC configuration variables include: SC IP address netsc_ipaddr and SC Customer Information sc_cus<hy>
tomerinfo. See the output from the scadm help command for a complete list of SC configuration variables.
The format for the set subcommand is:
 scadm set variable value
show
Display the current SC configuration variable settings. If no variable is specified, scadm shows all variable settings.
The format for the show subcommand is:
 scadm show [variable]
shownetwork
Display the current network configuration parameters for SC.
The format for the shownetwork subcommand is:
 scadm shownetwork
useradd
Add user accounts to the SC. The SC supports up to sixteen separate users.
The format for the useradd subcommand is:
 scadm useradd username
userdel
Delete a user account from SC.
<beginning of page>
The format for the userdel subcommand is:
 scadm userdel username
userpassword
Set a password for the user account specified. This password overrides any existing password currently set. There is
no verification of the old password before setting the new password.
The format for the userpassword subcommand is:
 scadm userpassword username
userperm
Set the permission level for the user.
The format for the userperm subcommand is:
 scadm userperm username [aucr]
usershow
Display details on the specified user account. If a username is not specified, all user accounts are displayed.
The format for the usershow subcommand is:
 scadm usershow username
version
Display the version numbers of the SC and its components.
The format for the version subcommand is:
 scadm version [-v]
The resetrsc, send_event, and version subcommands have associated options. Options follow subcommands on the
command line and are separated from the subcommand by a SPACE.
The resetrsc subcommand supports the following options:
-s
Perform a soft reset instead of a hard reset. A hard reset physically resets the SC hardware. The SC software jumps
to the boot firmware, simulating a reset, for a soft reset.
The send_event subcommand supports the following options:
-c
Send a critical event. Without the -c, -send_event sends a warning.
<beginning of page>
The version subcommand supports the following options:
-v
Display a verbose output of version numbers and associated information.
The consolehistory, fruhistory, and loghistory subcommands support the following option:
-a
Display the entire log. These subcommands normally display only the most recent log data. This flag causes them to
display the entire log.
The download, send_event, set, show, useradd, userdel, userperm, usershow, userpassword, and userperm sub<hy>
commands have associated arguments (operands).
If the subcommand has an option, the arguments follow the option on the command line and is separated from the
option by a SPACE. If the subcommand does not have an option, the arguments follow the subcommand on the com<hy>
mand line and are separated from the subcommand by a SPACE. If there are more than one arguments, they are sep<hy>
arated from each other by a SPACE.
The download subcommand supports the following arguments:
boot
Program the boot monitor portion of the flash. The main portion of the flash is programmed without any arguments
file
Specify file as the path to where the boot or main firmware image resides for download.
Examples of file are:
 /usr/platform/platform_type/lib/image/alommainfw
or
 /usr/platform/platform_type/lib/image/alombootfw
The send_event subcommand supports the following arguments:
"message"
Describe event using the test contained in message. Enclose message in quotation marks.
The set subcommand supports the following arguments:
variable
Set SC configuration variable.
value
Set SC configuration variable to value.
The show subcommand supports the following arguments:
<beginning of page>
variable
Display the value of that particular variable.
The useradd subcommand supports the following arguments:
username
Add new SC account username.
The userdel subcommand supports the following arguments:
username
Remove SC account username.
The userperm subcommand supports the following arguments:
-aucr
Set permissions for SC user accounts. If no permissions are specified, all four permissions are disabled and read only
access is assigned.
The following are the definitions for permissions:
a
Allow user to administer or change the SC configuration variables
u
Allow user to use the user commands to modify SC accounts
c
Allow user to connect to console.
r
Allow user to reset SC and to power on and off the host.
username
Change permissions on SC account username.
The -usershow subcommand supports the following arguments:
username
Display information on SC account username. If usernameis not specified, all accounts are displayed.
The userpassword subcommand supports the following arguments:
username
Set SC password for username.
The userperm subcommand supports the following arguments:
<beginning of page>
username
Change SC permissions for username.
Example 1 Displaying the SC's Date and Time
The following command displays the SC's date and time.
 scadm date
Example 2 Setting the SC's Configuration Variables
The following command sets the SC's configuration variable netsc_ipaddr to 192.168.1.2:
 scadm set netsc_ipaddr 192.168.1.2
Example 3 Displaying the Current SC's Configuration Settings:
The following command displays the current SC configuration settings:
 scadm show
Example 4 Displaying the Current Settings for a Variable
The following command displays the current settings for the sys_hostname variable:
 scadm show sys_hostname
Example 5 Sending a Text-Based Critical Event
The following command sends a critical event to the SC logs, alerts the current SC users, and sends an event to sys<hy>
log(3C):
 scadm send_event -c "The UPS signaled a loss in power"
Example 6 Sending an Informational Text-Based Event
The following command sends an non-critical informational text based event to the SC event log:
 scadm send_event "The disk is close to full capacity"
Example 7 Adding a User To the SC
The following command adds user rscroot to the SC:
 scadm useradd rscroot
Example 8 Deleting a User From the SC
The following command deletes user olduser from the SC:
 scadm userdel olduser
<beginning of page>
Example 9 Displaying User Details
The following command displays details of all user accounts:
 scadm usershow
Example 10 Displaying Details for a Specific User
The following command displays details of user account rscroot:
 scadm usershow rscroot
Example 11 Setting the User Permission Level
The following command sets the full permission level for user rscroot to aucr:
 scadm userperm rscroot aucr
Example 12 Setting the User Permission Level
The following command sets only console access for user newuser to c:
 scadm userperm newuser c
Example 13 Setting the User Permission Level
The following command sets the permission level for user newuser to read only access:
 scadm userperm newuser
Example 14 Displaying the Current Network Parameters
The following command displays the current network configuation parameters for the SC:
 scadm shownetwork
Example 15 Viewing the Consolehistory
The following command displays the content console in the SC event log:
 scadm consolehistory [-a]
Example 16 Viewing the Fruhistory
The following command displays the content of the "field replacable unit" in the SC event log:
 scadm fruhistory [-a]
<beginning of page>
Example 17 Viewing the Loghistory
The following command displays the most recent entries in the SC event log:
 scadm loghistory [-a]
Example 18 Displaying Verbose Information
The following command displays verbose version information on the SC and its components:
 scadm version -v
The following exit values are returned:
0
Successful completion.
non-zero
An error occurred.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wkvm _ Interface StabilityEvolving
uname(1), syslog(3C), attributes(5)
