<beginning of page>
sel_config <-> selection rules for copy, cut, paste, drag and drop operations
/usr/dt/config/sel_config
The sel_config file specifies how a system that is configured with Trusted Extensions behaves when a user transfers
data between windows that have different labels. Transfer operations include cut-and-paste, copy-and-paste, and
drag-and-drop. There are two types of entries in this file: automatic confirmation and automatic reply.
This type of entry specifies whether a confirmation window, the selection confirmer, displays. Each entry has the
form:
 relationship: confirmation
relationship identifies the result of comparing the selected data's source and destination windows' labels. There are
three allowed values:
upgradesl The source window's label is less than the destination window's label.
downgradesl The source window's label is higher than the destination window's label.
disjointsl The source and destination windows' labels are disjoint. Neither label dominates the other.
confirmation specifies whether to perform automatic confirmation. Allowed values are:
n Use manual confirmation, that is, display the selection confirmer window. This is the default.
y Use automatic confirmation, that is, do not display the selection confirmer window.
A single user operation can involve several flows of information between the source and destination windows. The
automatic reply set of entries provides a means to reduce the number of confirmations that are required of the user.
There must be one entry of this form:
 autoreply: value
If value is y (for yes), then the remaining entries of the set are used as attributes for the selection data (rather than
the actual contents) to complete the operation without confirmation. If value is n (for no), then the remaining entries
are ignored.
Defaults can be specified for any type field that appears in the Confirmer window. Below are some sample entries for
defaults.
 replytype: TARGETS
 replytype: Pixel Sets
 replytype: LENGTH
 replytype: Type Of Monitor
The TARGETS entry, when used, returns the list of target atoms that are supported by the source window. The Pixel
Sets and Type Of Monitor entries are used for animation during a drag-and-drop operation. The LENGTH entry
specifies the number of bytes in the selection.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
<beginning of page>
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ Availability<hy>
SUNWtsu _ Interface StabilityCommitted
attributes(5)
Rules When Changing the Level of Security for Data in Solaris Trusted Extensions Administrator's Procedures
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Exten<hy>
sions.
