<beginning of page>
sys-suspend <-> suspend or shutdown the system and power off
/usr/bin/sys-suspend [-fnxh][-d displayname]
sys-suspend provides options to suspend or shutdown the whole system.
A system can be suspended to conserve power or to prepare the system for transport. The suspend should not be
used when performing any hardware reconfiguration or replacement.
In case of suspend, the current system state is preserved either by keeping memory powered (Suspend to RAM), or
by saving the state to non-volatile storage (Suspend to Disk) until a resume operation is performed by power on or a
wake-up event.
On a resume in the windows environment, the system brings up lockscreen to ensure that only the authorized person
has access to the system. In a non-windows environment, the user is prompted for password.
It is possible that when devices or processes are performing critical or time sensitive operations (such as real time
operations) the system fails to suspend. When this occurs, the system remains in its current running state. Messages
reporting the failure are displayed on the console or system log. Once the system is successfully suspended, the re<hy>
sume operation always succeed barring external influences such as hardware reconfiguration or the like.
In case of shutdown, the system responds as if poweroff(1M) was performed.
This command enforces the solaris.system.power.suspend. authorizations. On a default install these are associated
with the console user. Other users need to include these authorizations or include the Suspend profile.
The following operands are supported:
-d displayname Connect to the X server specified by displayname.
-f Force suspend. Causes a poweroff(1M) to occur if the suspend fails. System state are not be saved, and a normal
boot follows.
-h Change the default from suspend to shutdown.
-n Do not display messages or request user intervention.
-x Disable lockscreen. This flag disables the execution of lockscreen at resume time.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUNW<hy>
pmowu _ Interface StabilityCommitted
halt(1M), powerd(1M), poweroff(1M), shutdown(1M), attributes(5), cpr(7)
