<beginning of page>
tpmadm <-> administer Trusted Platform Module
tpmadm status
tpmadm init
tpmadm clear [owner | lock]
tpmadm auth
tpmadm keyinfo [uuid]
tpmadm deletekey uuid
A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a hardware component that provides for protected key storage and reliable
measurements of software used to boot the operating system. The tpmadm utility is used to initialize and administer
the TPM so that it can be used by the operating system and other programs.
The TPM subsystem can store and manage an unlimited number of keys for use by the operating system and by
users. Each key is identified by a Universally Unique Identifier, or UUID.
Although the TPM can hold only a limited number of keys at any given time, the supporting software automatically
loads and unloads keys as needed. When a key is stored outside the TPM, it is always encrypted or "wrapped" by its
parent key so that the key is never exposed in readable form outside the TPM.
Before the TPM can be used, it must be initialized by the platform owner. This process involves setting an owner
password which is used to authorize privileged operations.
Although the TPM owner is similar to a traditional superuser, there are two important differences. First, process
privilege is irrelevant for access to TPM functions. All privileged operations require knowledge of the owner pass<hy>
word, regardless of the privilege level of the calling process. Second, the TPM owner is not able to override access
controls for data protected by TPM keys. The owner can effectively destroy data by re-initializing the TPM, but he
cannot access data that has been encrypted using TPM keys owned by other users.
The following subcommands are used in the form:
 # tpamadm <subcommand> [operand]
status
Report status information about the TPM. Output includes basic information about whether ownership of the TPM
has been established, current PCR contents, and the usage of TPM resources such as communication sessions and
loaded keys.
init
Initialize the TPM for use. This involves taking ownership of the TPM by setting the owner authorization password.
Taking ownership of the TPM creates a new storage root key, which is the ancestor of all keys created by this TPM.
Once this command is issued, the TPM must be reset using BIOS operations before it can be re-initialized.
auth
Change the owner authorization password for the TPM.
clear lock
Clear the count of failed authentication attempts. After a number of failed authentication attempts, the TPM re<hy>
sponds more slowly to subsequent attempts, in an effort to thwart attempts to find the owner password by exhaustive
search. This command, which requires the correct owner password, resets the count of failed attempts.
<beginning of page>
clear owner
Deactivate the TPM and return it to an unowned state. This operation, which requires the current TPM owner pass<hy>
word, invalidates all keys and data tied to the TPM. Before the TPM can be used again, the system must be restarted,
the TPM must be reactivated from the BIOS or ILOM pre-boot environment, and the TPM must be re-initialized us<hy>
ing the tpmadm init command.
keyinfo [uuid]
Report information about keys stored in the TPM subsystem. Without additional arguments, this subcommand pro<hy>
duces a brief listing of all keys. If the UUID of an individual key is specified, detailed information about that key is
displayed.
deletekey uuid
Delete the key with the specified UUID from the TPM subsystem's persistent storage.
After completing the requested operation, tpmadm exits with one of the following status values.
0
Successful termination.
1
Failure. The requested operation could not be completed.
2
Usage error. The tpmadm command was invoked with invalid arguments.
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
tab() box; cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE _ AvailabilitySUN<hy>
Wcsu _ Interface StabilityCommitted
attributes(5)
TCG Software Stack (TSS) Specifications: https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/TSS (as of the date of
publication)
